J. Lion et al.
Fig. 14. Radial electric field profiles, 𝐸𝑟, evaluated with the NTSS code for two
operational scenarios as a function of the normalized minor plasma radius 𝜌. The ‘Ion-
root’ label refers to an 𝐸𝑟profile obtained from the 0-D design point labeled as ‘A‘ in
Section 2.3 (red dot in Fig. 15). This regime exhibits a purely negative electric field.
‘Electron-root’ refers to a profile obtained by operating at higher temperature and lower
density, namely at 𝑇𝑒,0 = 19.8 k eV and 𝑛𝑖,0 = 1.7 ⋅1020 m−3, which allows for a positive
radial electric field. All profiles use a fixed ratio between electron and ion temperatures
of 𝑇𝑖∕𝑇𝑒= 0.95.
Fig. 15. POPCON plot illustrating the operational space of Stellaris. The 𝑦-axis
represents the on-axis ion (fuel) density 𝑛𝑖,0 = 𝑛𝐷 ,0 + 𝑛𝑇 ,0 in units of 1020 m−3, and the
𝑥-axis denotes the peak electron temperature 𝑇𝑒,0 in keV. The color gradient indicates
the auxiliary power required, in MW, as shown by the color bar on the right. Contour
lines depict various operational constraints and performance metrics including fusion
power (𝑃fus), wall power load (𝑝wall), volume averaged plasma beta (𝛽) and fusion
gain (𝑄). The red circles marks specific operating points of interest at constant fusion
power, labeled by ‘A’ and ‘B’. The red dashed line shows a possible path to reach the
design point from start-up with minimized auxiliary power. The dark gray line indicates
the Sudo density limit [131]. The light gray line indicates above which temperature
an ‘electron root’ appears in the center of the plasma at 𝑇𝑖∕𝑇𝑒= 0.95. White regions
correspond to areas where the auxiliary power is beyond the color bar limits and would
be either inaccessible (high 𝑇, low 𝑛or high 𝑛low 𝑇) or the plasma would ignite (high
𝑇, high 𝑛).
where 𝑇𝑒,0 and 𝑛𝑖,0 are varied to match the integrated power balance,
and 𝛼𝑇= 1.2 (a peaked profile shape) and 𝛼𝑛= 0.35 (a flat profile shape)
are fixed for this study, informed by density profiles observed in W7-X,
e.g. [135]. These profiles are in line with the assumptions of previous
stellarator reactor studies [12,136].
Appendix A describes the model fidelity used in this section. In sum-
mary, we use the fusion cross-section model from Bosch and Hale [137]
Table 4
Assumed parameters for the 0D studies in this sec-
tion. 𝑓ren refers to the proportionality factor of the
ISS04 energy confinement time scaling, 𝑓𝛼measures
how much of the alpha particle energy re-heats the
plasma, 𝜏⋆∕𝜏𝑖is the ratio between particle and energy
confinement time (for all species), 𝑓suppr is a heuristic
factor used to model the suppression of helium ash,
and 𝑛𝑊∕𝑛𝑒is the ratio between core tungsten density
and central fuel density.
Variable
Assumption
𝑓ren
1.0
𝑓𝛼
0.95
𝜏⋆∕𝜏𝐸
8.0
𝑓suppr
0.5
𝑛𝑊∕𝑛𝑖
10−5
for the fusion reaction rates. For line and continuum radiation, we
use a priori assumed impurity fractions and calculate the cooling
factors using the Aurora code [138], relying on the Atomic Data and
Analysis Structure (ADAS) database [139]. Synchrotron radiation is
modeled using the model described in [140]. We apply the ISS04
energy confinement time scaling law from [141], with a modification to
replace the heating power by the ratio of plasma energy divided by the
energy confinement time. Then, an averaged global energy confinement
time is assumed: 𝜏𝐸= 𝜏ISS04
𝐸
(𝑇 , 𝐵 , 𝑎, 𝐴, 𝜄2∕3
). Helium ash profiles are
obtained using a fixed ratio of particle-to-energy confinement time.
Fast particle pressures are modeled using the model of [142]. For the
purpose of this analysis, we take a conservative value of the fast particle
confinement of 95% and a fixed ion-to-electron temperature ratio of
0.95. An important assumption is a helium suppression factor 𝑓suppr,
heuristically reducing the amplitude of the resulting helium ash profile
in the analysis. This factor accounts for the distinction between alpha
particle birth location and thermalization location [110]. Assumed
parameters are summarized in Table 4.
Fig. 15 shows a scan of the peak electron temperature 𝑇𝑒,0 and
the peak ion density 𝑛𝑖,0, along with the required auxiliary power to
support the operation point and relevant operational constraints, in a
power-output-contour (POPCON) plot. Two chosen operation points are
indicated with two red circles (labeled ‘A’ and ‘B’). The red dashed line
indicates a path to reach the operation point ‘A’ with minimal auxiliary
heating power. According to the employed model, about 50 MW of
auxiliary heating power would need to be installed to reach the desired
operation point.
Table 5 summarizes machine and plasma parameters for both op-
eration points. It is worth highlighting that the ratio of the volume-
averaged electron density over the Sudo limit density [131], ⟨𝑛𝑒⟩𝑉∕𝑛Sudo
at the chosen operation point ‘B’ is slightly greater than one. However,
as suggested by recent research [143], the Sudo limit strongly depends
on the impurity fraction in the edge, and higher fidelity models should
be employed to calculate the density limit more accurately. Ultimately,
although only the two operation points with the highest fusion power
are shown here, the performance of the plasma equilibrium is suffi-
ciently resilient at lower 𝛽values, indicating that all other operation
points with 𝑃aux < 50 MW are likely feasible (e.g. an operation point
with lower fusion power and lower fusion gain could be chosen, too,
which would result in higher component lifetimes and easier burn-
control). However, to keep the same output power of the machine,
scaling should be done along lines of constant fusion power (dashed
black lines in Fig. 15).
Profiles at the operation point ‘A’ are shown in Fig. 16. The profiles
have a constant ratio between the minor plasma radius and the profile
gradients when 𝑇𝑒,0 and 𝑛𝑖,0 are scaled (e.g. at 𝜌= 0.6 we find ratios of
𝑎∕𝐿𝑇= 2.25 and 𝑎∕𝐿𝑛= 0.66).
An important aspect to discuss is the control scheme required to
support the suggested operation points. Compared to tokamaks, stel-
larators usually require very limited effort on control systems. In the
Fusion Engineering and Design xxx (xxxx) xxx 
9 
