

===== PDF PAGE 2 =====
J. Lion et al.
15]. As more detailed cost estimates become available alongside greater
maturity of the fusion ecosystem, there are indications that the price
of fusion energy will be competitive even relatively early in fusion’s
technological development [16]. The fuel for fusion is not subject to
resource scarcity, as the reactants, deuterium and lithium-6 – as well
as neutron multipliers such as Pb, Be, Ti, Mn, or Zr – are abundantly
available on Earth, capable of providing virtually limitless resources
for future generations. The promise of fusion technology is therefore of
the highest relevance for providing human civilization with sustainable
energy in the coming centuries.
Under this premise, fusion is being globally pursued through various
concepts. Among the magnetic confinement approaches, large-scale
projects aiming to close the gap toward a fusion power plant include
(but are not limited to) the international research tokamak ITER [17];
the STEP spherical tokamak program [18] in the UK; the high-field
conventional tokamak concept of SPARC [19] in the United States, and
CFETR [20] in China. Various demonstration device conceptual studies
are additionally under investigation [21,22].
While tokamaks have historically been viewed as the clearest path
to a fusion power plant, they are prone to plasma disruptions [23],
which pose a significant challenge for commercially viable operation.
Extensive ongoing scientific efforts aim to solve this issue through pre-
diction [24–26] and mitigation methods [27–30], but there have been
no experimental demonstrations that would indicate reliable usage in
a power plant setting.
The stellarator is a similar technology to the tokamak, with com-
parable energy confinement properties [31,32]. However, stellarators
with no net toroidal current in the plasma avoid problematic current-
driven plasma disruptions by design. These stellarators have the ability
to run in steady-state, intrinsically reducing thermal and mechanical
component fatigue and eliminating the need for an expensive plasma
current drive system. Although in principle tokamaks can also operate
in long pulses or even in steady-state, achieving the required steady-
state current drive is both technologically challenging and economi-
cally demanding, requiring high electrical efficiencies. The absence of
current-driven disruptions in current-free stellarators greatly reduces
the need for active control of the plasma—circumventing the need for
in-vessel coils, which present challenges in environments subjected to
high neutron fluxes. Other advantages of stellarators over tokamaks
include the absence of a Greenwald-like density limit [33–35], allowing
operation at significantly higher densities. This is advantageous because
fusion power scales favorably with the square of the fuel density. Fur-
thermore, stellarators do not exhibit the unfavorable ‘Eich-scaling’ [36]
of heat exhaust deposition width on divertor plates seen in tokamaks.
On the contrary, stellarators have shown large wetted areas on divertor
plates [37–40] and good access to almost complete ‘detachment’ [41–
43], an operation scenario that eases the heat exhaust challenge on the
plasma-facing components.
Among the most prominently discussed options, the quasi-iso-
dynamic (QI) stellarator [44] is particularly promising for reactor appli-
cations due to its intrinsically minimized self-induced currents, like the
bootstrap current [45,46]. Optimized stellarator concepts without QI
symmetry can, in general, feature significant toroidal plasma currents.
Such concepts present a strong dependency of plasma equilibrium
properties on plasma profile shapes, are potentially subject to current-
driven disruptions, and – since their bootstrap current does not vanish
– likely do not have the ability to use the island divertor concept as
an exhaust concept without employing further (unexplored) control
systems. Among the investigated stellarator options, the modular, low-
shear, QI stellarator holds the highest technological readiness level,
following exploration in Wendelstein 7-AS (W7-AS) [47] and the more
recent Wendelstein 7-X (W7-X) stellarator [48–50].
W7-X went into operation in 2015, and reached its full design
specifications only recently, in 2022. Within a few years, W7-X exper-
iments have demonstrated the reduction of neoclassical transport to a
level at which turbulence is the major driver for heat transport in the
Table 1
Comparison of the design concept presented in this paper (Stellaris) against the two
most recent Wendelstein stellarators. W7-AS values are extracted from [47]. W7-X
values are taken from [31].
W7-AS
W7-X
Stellaris
Minor radius [m]
0.18
0.5
1.3
Major radius [m]
2.0
5.5
12.7
Av. magnetic field strength [T]
2.6
2.5
9.0
Av. power density [MW∕m3]
10
0.3
6.1
Peak ion temperature [keV]
1.7
3.4
15
Peak electron density [1020 m−3]
4
2
5
Peak triple product [keV s m−3]
4.6 × 1018
5.1 × 1019
12.4 × 1021
plasma [51]. It is difficult to overstate the importance of this achieve-
ment: W7-X’s results demonstrate that optimized stellarators can now
be designed to achieve neoclassical transport levels similar to those
of tokamaks. Therefore, optimized stellarators are now fundamentally
limited by the same physical (turbulent) phenomena that also constrain
tokamaks, while maintaining the critical steady-state capability and
stability advantages of stellarators.
Historically, stellarator reactor concept studies such as the ARIES-CS
study [52], the extrapolation of LHD to heliotron-based fusion reac-
tors [53,54], or the HELIAS studies [55–60] have provided important
platforms for the fusion community to discuss the extrapolation of
physics and the validity of concepts from experiment to reactor scale.
However, despite successful operation of W7-X [50,51,61,62], one can-
not merely scale W7-X to an economically attractive reactor size, due to
a number of known limitations including high fusion-born fast particle
losses [63], insufficient plasma-coil distance to fit a neutron shield
and blanket at moderate machine sizes [12,64], and high turbulent
transport levels, particularly ITG transport [65,66]. Moreover, W7-X’s
usage of NbTi as a superconductor [67] does not easily scale to the
magnetic field strength required for a reactor.
In recent years, the community has proposed various solutions
to address these challenges. For example, fast particle losses can be
mitigated through precise numerical optimization techniques [68–72].
The issue of insufficient plasma-coil distance has been tackled with
new cost functions for stellarator optimization [73] and more com-
pact blanket designs [10]. Turbulent transport suppression has been
demonstrated in the presence of strong density gradients [74–77] as
well as in plasma geometry optimization efforts [71,78–81]. Addi-
tionally, advances in high-temperature superconductors (HTS) have
paved the way for achieving higher magnetic field strengths in modern
devices [82–85]. Despite this, there is currently no comprehensive
stellarator reactor concept study that simultaneously integrates these
developments into a single, coherent design. Therefore, it remains
unclear whether these advancements can be effectively combined to
create a stellarator that is viable for commercial power plants while
remaining feasible from an engineering perspective.
In this paper, we aim to bridge that existing gap by presenting
a stellarator configuration optimized for all essential reactor aspects,
including an engineering feasibility study. We argue that the config-
uration and concept introduced here offer a promising pathway to a
D-T stellarator power plant. This study extends recent breakthroughs in
the numerical optimization of QI stellarator plasma shapes, specifically
the ‘SQuiD’ configurations [70,71], toward a viable stellarator fusion
reactor.
The design introduced here represents the first of a new class of QI
stellarator designs harnessing the high-field potential of HTS magnets.
In this paper, the first conceptual design within this class is denoted as
Stellaris.
Relevant machine parameters of Stellaris are highlighted in Table 1,
providing a comparison to the two most recent Wendelstein stellarators.
Note that not all peak values displayed in this table were achieved
in the same experiment for each device—peak density values were
achieved independently of the peak temperatures. Stellaris represents
Fusion Engineering and Design xxx (xxxx) xxx 
2 


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====
J. Lion et al.
a significant leap in scale and performance, being approximately 2.6
times larger in major radius than W7-X and operating at a magnetic
field strength that is 3.6 times higher. This substantial increase in size
and magnetic field strength results in an anticipated triple product that
is roughly 200 times larger than that of W7-X.
The paper is structured as follows. In Section 2.1, we provide an
overview of Stellaris. We present an analysis of plasma properties
in Section 2.2, and the physics basis in Section 2.3. An engineering
analysis is then presented, focusing on fueling (Section 2.4), heating
(Section 2.5), divertor design (Section 2.6), a thermal analysis of the
first wall (Section 2.7), neutronics for the first wall, the blanket and
neutron shield (Section 2.8), magnets (Section 2.9), support structures
(Section 2.10), and a remote maintenance solution (Section 2.11). In
Section 3, we summarize the achievements presented in this paper and
the impact we anticipate they will have on fusion research.
2. Concept and analysis
In this section, we provide an overview of the Stellaris concept and
proceed through different aspects of analysis, ranging from physics to
engineering properties.
2.1. Overview
Stellaris is a quasi-isodynamic stellarator device with modular coils,
a minimized toroidal plasma current, a magnetic island chain at the
edge allowing for an island divertor, and HTS superconducting mag-
nets. The device closely follows the W7-X stellarator model, with the
addition of multiple improvements necessary for a reactor candidate.
The device features a 4-fold discrete rotational symmetry (‘number of
field periods’) in addition to ‘stellarator symmetry’, an internal discrete
flip-mirror symmetry [86].
The underlying plasma configuration of Stellaris belongs to the class
of recently proposed SQuID-configurations [71], adapted to meet the
requirements of a power plant by dedicated optimization for larger coil-
plasma distances. Key parameters of the device are displayed in Table 2.
The major radius is approximately 12.7 m while the minor radius is
1.3 m. By comparison, ITER has a minor radius of about 2.0 m [87]
and the ARC tokamak concept approximately 1.1 m [10]. We adopt
high-temperature superconductors for the modular coils, and remote
maintenance is enabled through the splitting of modular sectors. The
device is sized to provide about 2700 MW of peak fusion power. Con-
sidering the power multiplication incurred in the blanket (Section 2.8),
Stellaris is predicted to produce approximately 3150 MW of thermal
power and (assuming a simple electrical conversion efficiency of 1/3)
nearly 1 GW of electrical power.
A schematic view of the device is shown in Fig. 1. A comparison
of component sizes with ITER and ARC is shown in Fig. 2. We note
that the displayed machines have different plasma volumes and fusion
power targets: for ITER, 𝑉= 840 m3 and 𝑃fusion = 500 MW; for ARC,
𝑉
= 141 m3 and 𝑃fusion = 500 MW; for Stellaris, 𝑉
= 425 m3 and
𝑃fusion ≈ 2700 MW. As shown in Fig. 2, although Stellaris has a larger
volume than ARC, its non-planar magnets are analogous in size to the
TF magnets of ARC, and are smaller than the ARC Poloidal Field (PF)
magnets (not shown).
In the following section, we survey the different subsystems of
Stellaris, beginning with attributes of the plasma configuration with
different profile shapes and proceeding to expected physics properties,
followed by requirements of the heating system to achieve the chosen
operational point, analysis and design of the divertor concept, the
first wall, blanket, shield, coils, and support structure, and finally, the
remote maintenance concept.
Table 2
Key parameters of Stellaris, the high-field stellarator fusion power plant concept
presented in this paper. ECRH stands for ‘electron cyclotron resonance heating’.
Variable
Value
Minor plasma radius [m]
1.3
Major plasma radius [m]
12.7
Plasma aspect ratio [1]
9.8
Plasma volume [m3]
428
Plasma surface area [m2]
940
Axis av. magnetic field strength [T]
9.0
Peak conductor magnetic field strength [T]
24.9
Peak coil current (single coil) [MA]
15.4
Number of toroidal field coils [1]
48
Stored magnetic energy [GJ]
111
Required plasma-coupled ECRH power [MW]
50
Peak fusion power [MW]
∼2700
Peak thermal power (after blanket multiplication) [MW]
∼3150
Peak electric power [MW]
∼1000
Peak neutron wall load [MW m−2]
4.05
Fig. 1. Overview of Stellaris. Pictured here are the non-planar modular coils (green),
the support structure (light grey) and the cryostat (outermost grey shell). The red region
indicates the blanket. Blue ‘stripes’ around the (pink) plasma show the location of the
magnetic islands which are used to divert the plasma at the edge. One sector splitting
interface is shown in blue. The inner radius of the cryostat is 6.5 m, its outer radius
is 18 m. A person is shown for scale.
Fig. 2. Size comparison between one of the ITER TF coils (a), one of the ARC tokamak
TF coils [10] (b), and one of the non-planar stellarator coils of Stellaris (c).
2.2. Plasma properties
The stellarator plasma and its properties are of central importance to
all reactor subsystems. The stellarator configuration employed here is
a variant of the family introduced in [71], called ‘SQuIDs’. The plasma
configuration for Stellaris was optimized to allow for distant coils using
the target formulation from [73] and low fast particle losses using a
precise QI formulation from [70].
Fusion Engineering and Design xxx (xxxx) xxx 
3 


===== PDF PAGE 4 =====
J. Lion et al.
Fig. 3. Visualization of the QI stellarator configuration used for Stellaris. Shown is the
VMEC free-boundary plasma boundary at ⟨𝛽⟩𝑉= 3% with its magnetic field strength.
Corresponding coils are shown with their (correctly sized) winding packs for one
rotationally symmetric module (one full field period).
Fig. 4. Comparison between the proposed QI configuration (SQuID) and 3 previously
published configurations: W7-X [91],QIPC [92,93], and Hydra [94]. Radial values are
normalized by the largest (outermost) and smallest value in the set of configura-
tions. The metrics included in the plot summarize a subset of the reactor-relevant
requirements listed in Section 2.2; see Section 2.2 for a description of each dimension.
Each configuration is evaluated at its optimized volume-averaged plasma 𝛽value. The
meaning of the axis labels are explained in the main text.
The configuration used for this study satisfies all relevant reactor re-
quirements simultaneously, including feasible modular coils that leave
sufficient space for the required thickness of shielding and breeding
materials surrounding the plasma, good flux surface quality at finite
𝛽, equilibrium resiliency with respect to finite 𝛽effects, ideal-MHD
stability, reduced neoclassical transport, and compatibility with the
island divertor concept. Additionally, at a sufficiently high peak elec-
tron temperature of about 19 keV, the configuration has the ability to
prevent impurity accumulation in the plasma core by creating a positive
radial electric field. Details on the methodology used to obtain the
stellarator configuration are obtainable from Ref. [71]. The rotational
transform is chosen to have values between 0.86 on the axis and 0.98
at the edge, avoiding low order resonances in the main confinement
volume. The corresponding set of electromagnetic coils is optimized by
minimizing the normal component of the magnetic field vector on the
last flux surface of the plasma boundary, as introduced in [88]. The
total magnetic field is the superposition of the vacuum field generated
by the electromagnetic coils and the field generated by the plasma
currents. We use the virtual casing principle [89], as numerically
implemented by [90], to compute the field generated by the plasma
currents. The coils, together with plasma boundary at the targeted 𝛽
value of ⟨𝛽⟩𝑉= 3%, are shown in Fig. 3.
Table 3 presents several high-level plasma and engineering param-
eters of the stellarator plasma and its coil-set.
In this paper, unless otherwise stated, we use the free-boundary
equilibria obtained with the VMEC code [95] for analysis. The term
Table 3
Main configuration parameters of Stellaris scaled to a minor
radius of 𝑎= 1.3 m. Coil information provided in this table
refers to the center filament. Additional information is given
in Section 2.2 and in Section 2.9.
Description
Value
Aspect ratio [1]
9.8
Optimized vol. av. 𝛽[1]
0.03
Axis rotational transform [1]
0.86
Edge rotational transform [1]
0.98
Edge mirror ratio [%]
26.66
Minimum coil-plasma distance [m]
1.37
Minimum coil-coil separation [m]
0.67
Minimum radius of curvature [m]
0.64
‘free-boundary’ refers to a plasma equilibrium that is obtained consis-
tently with the vacuum field produced by the electromagnetic coils.
The engineering feasibility of the coil-set of Stellaris will be discussed
in more detail in Section 2.9.
We visualize the performance of the plasma in a number of relevant
metrics in Fig. 4, by comparing it to previously published QI stellarator
plasma configurations [91–94]. The diagram showcases a ‘performance’
plot where outermost values depict highest performance and innermost
values depict lowest performance. In this diagram, W7-X [91] refers to
the standard configuration of the W7-X experiment at ⟨𝛽⟩𝑉∼ 4% [96].
The QIPC [92,93] stellarator configuration is a high-𝛽, ⟨𝛽⟩𝑉∼ 8.5%,
configuration with improved QI quality and MHD stability with respect
to W7-X. Hydra [94] is a proposed QI stellarator configuration that
achieves low neoclassical transport, good confinement of fast particles,
and reduced integrated bootstrap current with respect to W7-X.
Fig. 4 summarizes the following properties:
• ‘𝐴’ refers to the configuration aspect ratio 𝐴= 𝑅
𝑎, where 𝑎is the
plasma minor radius, and 𝑅is the major plasma radius;
• ‘𝛥Shafranov’ denotes the Shafranov shift at a volume-averaged 𝛽of
⟨𝛽⟩𝑉∼ 3.0%, indicative of the equilibrium resiliency;
• ‘𝑓𝛼’ denotes the fraction of confined collision-less energetic parti-
cles when launched from mid-radius (𝜌= 0.5) evaluated with the
SIMPLE code [97,98];
• ‘−𝜕𝑠⟨𝐽⟩
⟨𝐽⟩‘ measures the strength of the maximum-𝐽property at 𝑠=
0.5, and the maximum value across all bounce orbits have been
considered. The maximum-𝐽property benefits the confinement of
energetic particles [70,99], improves MHD stability [100–102],
and suppresses TEM driven turbulence [76,103–105];
• ‘𝐷∗
11’ refer to the mono-energetic radial transport coefficients and
indicates the degree of neoclassical particle and energy confine-
ment quality [106];
• ‘𝐷∗
31’ is the mono-energetic bootstrap current coefficient. Both,
𝐷∗
11 and 𝐷∗
31 are obtained with the SFINCS code [107] at mid-
radius, for a reference collisionality and normalized radial electric
field strength of 𝜈∗
= 1 × 10−4 and 𝜈∗
𝐸
= 1 × 10−4, respec-
tively. Background information, including nomenclature for the
normalization chosen can be found in [106] and in [108];
• ‘𝛾Cobravmec’ is the highest growth rate in the plasma volume for
the ideal-MHD infinite-𝑛ballooning mode evaluated with the
COBRAVMEC code [109];
• and finally, ‘𝐿𝛁𝐁’ is the minimum magnetic field gradient length
at the plasma boundary, as proposed in [73], which influences
the feasibility and distance of the modular coils from the plasma.
For consistency, all dimensions in Fig. 4 are normalized using the
minimum and maximum values across all configurations analyzed.
Fixed-boundary metrics (i.e., metrics obtained from the equilibrium
magnetic field using the optimized plasma boundary as boundary con-
dition) are used for the comparison, as coil information is not available
for every configuration. Fig. 4 demonstrates that the proposed QI
plasma configuration presented in this paper improves upon the W7-X
Fusion Engineering and Design xxx (xxxx) xxx 
4 


===== PDF PAGE 5 =====
J. Lion et al.
configuration in all evaluated metrics.
In the following paragraphs, we offer a more detailed analysis of
performance metrics that are particularly important for reactor-relevant
plasma configurations.
Fast particle confinement. To evaluate the configuration’s confinement
of fusion-born alpha particles, we evaluate both collisionless and colli-
sional losses.
We first simulate collisionless trajectories within the plasma vol-
ume using the symplectic gyro-center code SIMPLE [97,98] and ne-
glect radial electric fields and slowing-down effects. Any wave-particle
interactions of the fast particle population are neglected in SIMPLE.
In SIMPLE simulations, we launch a total of 2 × 105 particles, each
with an initial energy of 𝐸𝛼= 3.5 MeV, close to the original alpha
particle energy of a D-T fusion reaction. At initialization, we distribute
the particles uniformly in their pitch angle. Particles are launched from
flux surfaces equally spaced in effective minor radius. Within each
flux surface, the number of launched particles is proportional to an
alpha particle birth profile rate, 𝜆birth(𝜌) = 𝑛𝐷𝑛𝑇⟨𝜎 𝑣⟩𝑇. For the analysis
presented in this section, the required kinetic profiles are taken from
the chosen physics design point (Point A) introduced in Section 2.3. On
each flux surface, particles are launched following a volumetric uniform
distribution (i.e., they are initialized proportionally to the Jacobian √𝑔
derived from the VMEC equilibrium). The particles are considered lost
if they cross the 𝑠= 1 boundary of the plasma.
Sub-figure (a) in Fig. 5 shows the fraction of lost energetic particles
at different volume-averaged plasma 𝛽values as a function of time
after their birth, as obtained from SIMPLE. At the optimized design
point, with ⟨𝛽⟩𝑉= 3.0%, the cumulative lost fraction of fusion-born fast
particles after 100 ms is approximately 0.7%. This time frame of 100 ms is
a representative value for the alpha-electron momentum exchange time
at realistic temperatures and densities in stellarator reactors. Note that
the configuration was optimized for the full pressure operating point
⟨𝛽⟩𝑉= 3.0%;
As a comparison, we perform a single collisional alpha particle con-
finement calculation at 𝛽= 3% using the Monte-Carlo code ANTS [63].
The code integrates drift orbits in 3D space using a grid-based interpo-
lation of all field-related quantities required. The calculation includes
pitch-angle scattering and slowing down from collisions with the ther-
mal background plasma, assumed to consist of electrons, deuterons and
tritons. As before, particles are considered lost in this simulation if
they cross the 𝑠= 1 boundary of the VMEC equilibrium. ANTS allows
for differentiation between particle and energy losses. Loss fractions of
both the energy and the particle loss of the fast particle population as
a function of the slowing down time are shown in sub-figure (b) of
Fig. 5. We find total alpha particle energy losses at around 0.8% with
this higher level of fidelity analysis, consistent with the values obtained
with SIMPLE.
Ultimately, the confinement of fast particles is constrained not
only by power balance considerations, since fast particles need to be
confined to reheat the plasma, but also by the heat load induced by
these particles on the first wall. To estimate the magnitude of that
heat load, we calculate the lost power from energetic particles as a
function of the volume-averaged plasma 𝛽, as shown in Fig. 6. As the
plasma 𝛽increases from vacuum to the desired target design point,
the lost fusion power remains below approximately 10 MW. Following
the methodology outlined in [110], we estimate the peak heat load on
the wall using conservative assumptions, such as assuming no energy
loss of fast particles during their slowing-down period. By applying a
heuristic peaking factor of 320, which was determined in [110] for a
HELIAS-5 configuration, the estimated peak heat load on the wall at
the target design point for this study is about 1.4 MW m−2. This value is
of the same order of magnitude as the photon wall loads, demonstrated
later in this paper, in Section 2.7, and is therefore in line with the
technological limits of a solid first wall.
Fig. 5.
(a): Lost fraction of energetic particles initialized from a realistic birth profile
at different volume-averaged plasma 𝛽, as obtained with SIMPLE using collision-less
simulations. (b): Results of collisional slowing-down simulations using code ANTS at
⟨𝛽⟩𝑉= 3% using a realistic alpha particle birth profile. .
Fig. 6. Lost fusion power from energetic particles initialized from a realistic birth
profile at different volume-averaged plasma 𝛽as obtained from the VMEC free boundary
equilibrium and using the SIMPLE code assuming collisionless fast particle trajectories
according to realistic birth profiles of a priori plasma background profiles.
Neoclassical transport. Neoclassical parallel and radial transport must
be minimized for QI configurations to be reactor-relevant. Fig. 7 shows
the mono-energetic neoclassical radial transport coefficient as a func-
tion of the mono-energetic collisionality 𝜈∗
=
𝑅0𝜈
𝜄𝑣
for the SQuID
configuration used here and for the standard configuration of W7-X.
Both configurations have been scaled to the same plasma minor radius
and the same axis-averaged magnetic field strength.
The figure illustrates that with a finite radial electric field, the pro-
posed configuration exhibits about one order of magnitude lower radial
neoclassical transport coefficients compared to W7-X. Furthermore, the
transport coefficients remain of a similar size across different plasma
𝛽values. This highlights the resiliency of the equilibrium properties
against diamagnetic effects. The neoclassical mono-energetic transport
coefficients have been evaluated with the SFINCS code [107] on the
VMEC free-boundary equilibrium.
Fusion Engineering and Design xxx (xxxx) xxx 
5 


===== PDF PAGE 9 =====
J. Lion et al.
Fig. 14. Radial electric field profiles, 𝐸𝑟, evaluated with the NTSS code for two
operational scenarios as a function of the normalized minor plasma radius 𝜌. The ‘Ion-
root’ label refers to an 𝐸𝑟profile obtained from the 0-D design point labeled as ‘A‘ in
Section 2.3 (red dot in Fig. 15). This regime exhibits a purely negative electric field.
‘Electron-root’ refers to a profile obtained by operating at higher temperature and lower
density, namely at 𝑇𝑒,0 = 19.8 k eV and 𝑛𝑖,0 = 1.7 ⋅1020 m−3, which allows for a positive
radial electric field. All profiles use a fixed ratio between electron and ion temperatures
of 𝑇𝑖∕𝑇𝑒= 0.95.
Fig. 15. POPCON plot illustrating the operational space of Stellaris. The 𝑦-axis
represents the on-axis ion (fuel) density 𝑛𝑖,0 = 𝑛𝐷 ,0 + 𝑛𝑇 ,0 in units of 1020 m−3, and the
𝑥-axis denotes the peak electron temperature 𝑇𝑒,0 in keV. The color gradient indicates
the auxiliary power required, in MW, as shown by the color bar on the right. Contour
lines depict various operational constraints and performance metrics including fusion
power (𝑃fus), wall power load (𝑝wall), volume averaged plasma beta (𝛽) and fusion
gain (𝑄). The red circles marks specific operating points of interest at constant fusion
power, labeled by ‘A’ and ‘B’. The red dashed line shows a possible path to reach the
design point from start-up with minimized auxiliary power. The dark gray line indicates
the Sudo density limit [131]. The light gray line indicates above which temperature
an ‘electron root’ appears in the center of the plasma at 𝑇𝑖∕𝑇𝑒= 0.95. White regions
correspond to areas where the auxiliary power is beyond the color bar limits and would
be either inaccessible (high 𝑇, low 𝑛or high 𝑛low 𝑇) or the plasma would ignite (high
𝑇, high 𝑛).
where 𝑇𝑒,0 and 𝑛𝑖,0 are varied to match the integrated power balance,
and 𝛼𝑇= 1.2 (a peaked profile shape) and 𝛼𝑛= 0.35 (a flat profile shape)
are fixed for this study, informed by density profiles observed in W7-X,
e.g. [135]. These profiles are in line with the assumptions of previous
stellarator reactor studies [12,136].
Appendix A describes the model fidelity used in this section. In sum-
mary, we use the fusion cross-section model from Bosch and Hale [137]
Table 4
Assumed parameters for the 0D studies in this sec-
tion. 𝑓ren refers to the proportionality factor of the
ISS04 energy confinement time scaling, 𝑓𝛼measures
how much of the alpha particle energy re-heats the
plasma, 𝜏⋆∕𝜏𝑖is the ratio between particle and energy
confinement time (for all species), 𝑓suppr is a heuristic
factor used to model the suppression of helium ash,
and 𝑛𝑊∕𝑛𝑒is the ratio between core tungsten density
and central fuel density.
Variable
Assumption
𝑓ren
1.0
𝑓𝛼
0.95
𝜏⋆∕𝜏𝐸
8.0
𝑓suppr
0.5
𝑛𝑊∕𝑛𝑖
10−5
for the fusion reaction rates. For line and continuum radiation, we
use a priori assumed impurity fractions and calculate the cooling
factors using the Aurora code [138], relying on the Atomic Data and
Analysis Structure (ADAS) database [139]. Synchrotron radiation is
modeled using the model described in [140]. We apply the ISS04
energy confinement time scaling law from [141], with a modification to
replace the heating power by the ratio of plasma energy divided by the
energy confinement time. Then, an averaged global energy confinement
time is assumed: 𝜏𝐸= 𝜏ISS04
𝐸
(𝑇 , 𝐵 , 𝑎, 𝐴, 𝜄2∕3
). Helium ash profiles are
obtained using a fixed ratio of particle-to-energy confinement time.
Fast particle pressures are modeled using the model of [142]. For the
purpose of this analysis, we take a conservative value of the fast particle
confinement of 95% and a fixed ion-to-electron temperature ratio of
0.95. An important assumption is a helium suppression factor 𝑓suppr,
heuristically reducing the amplitude of the resulting helium ash profile
in the analysis. This factor accounts for the distinction between alpha
particle birth location and thermalization location [110]. Assumed
parameters are summarized in Table 4.
Fig. 15 shows a scan of the peak electron temperature 𝑇𝑒,0 and
the peak ion density 𝑛𝑖,0, along with the required auxiliary power to
support the operation point and relevant operational constraints, in a
power-output-contour (POPCON) plot. Two chosen operation points are
indicated with two red circles (labeled ‘A’ and ‘B’). The red dashed line
indicates a path to reach the operation point ‘A’ with minimal auxiliary
heating power. According to the employed model, about 50 MW of
auxiliary heating power would need to be installed to reach the desired
operation point.
Table 5 summarizes machine and plasma parameters for both op-
eration points. It is worth highlighting that the ratio of the volume-
averaged electron density over the Sudo limit density [131], ⟨𝑛𝑒⟩𝑉∕𝑛Sudo
at the chosen operation point ‘B’ is slightly greater than one. However,
as suggested by recent research [143], the Sudo limit strongly depends
on the impurity fraction in the edge, and higher fidelity models should
be employed to calculate the density limit more accurately. Ultimately,
although only the two operation points with the highest fusion power
are shown here, the performance of the plasma equilibrium is suffi-
ciently resilient at lower 𝛽values, indicating that all other operation
points with 𝑃aux < 50 MW are likely feasible (e.g. an operation point
with lower fusion power and lower fusion gain could be chosen, too,
which would result in higher component lifetimes and easier burn-
control). However, to keep the same output power of the machine,
scaling should be done along lines of constant fusion power (dashed
black lines in Fig. 15).
Profiles at the operation point ‘A’ are shown in Fig. 16. The profiles
have a constant ratio between the minor plasma radius and the profile
gradients when 𝑇𝑒,0 and 𝑛𝑖,0 are scaled (e.g. at 𝜌= 0.6 we find ratios of
𝑎∕𝐿𝑇= 2.25 and 𝑎∕𝐿𝑛= 0.66).
An important aspect to discuss is the control scheme required to
support the suggested operation points. Compared to tokamaks, stel-
larators usually require very limited effort on control systems. In the
Fusion Engineering and Design xxx (xxxx) xxx 
9 


===== PDF PAGE 10 =====
J. Lion et al.
Table 5
Selected plasma and machine parameters for the two design points shown in Fig. 15.
A-priori profiles are used according to Eq. (3). Ratios taken for 𝜏⋆∕𝜏𝐸are assumptions.
𝑛𝑂1 refers to the cut-off density of electron cyclotron resonance heating (ECRH) in the
first ordinary (O1) mode. In further studies, until not otherwise stated, values for point
A are taken. Point B would violate the ‘Sudo- density limit’ [131], but might still be
feasible with sufficient plasma purity.
Description
Point A
Point B
Minor plasma radius [m]
1.3
1.3
Major plasma radius [m]
12.74
12.74
Axis averaged 𝐵0 [T]
9.0
9.0
Aspect ratio [1]
9.8
9.8
Plasma volume [m3]
425
425
Plasma surface area [m2]
327
327
𝑓r en [1]
1.0
1.0
Vol av. 𝑍ef f (core) [1]
1.20
1.21
Vol. av. beta [%]
2.76
2.81
Vol. av. el. density [1020 m−3]
3.17
4.21
Peak helium ash density [1020 m−3]
0.56
0.83
Peak el. density [1020 m−3]
5.06
6.89
Peak D density [1020 m−3]
1.96
2.60
Peak T density [1020 m−3]
1.96
2.60
𝑛𝑒,0∕𝑛𝑂1 [1]
0.64
0.87
⟨𝑛𝑒⟩𝑉∕𝑛Sudo [1]
1.00
1.55
Peak el. temperature [keV]
15.40
12.25
Peak ion temperature [keV]
14.63
11.64
Fusion gain [1]
∞
182
Aux. power at operation point [MW]
0
14.77
Fusion power [MW]
2700
2700
Peak fusion heating [MW∕m3]
5.51
6.02
𝑃∕𝑆LCFS (no edge radiation) [MW∕m2]
1.18
0.91
Total plasma energy [MJ]
504.65
533.14
Av. neutron wall power [MW∕m2]
2.87
2.87
Av. photon wall power [MW∕m2]
0.70
0.72
Peak triple product [k eVs∕m3]
3.93 × 1021
5.66 × 1021
Confinement time [s]
1.46
1.99
Alpha slowing down time [ms]
43.76
23.75
Ratio 𝜏⋆∕𝜏𝐸[1]
8.00
8.00
Tritium burn rate [g/day]
416.57
416.49
Rel. tungsten fraction core 𝑛𝑊∕𝑛𝑒[10−6]
7.76
7.55
Fig. 16. Steady-state density profiles (a) and temperature profiles (b) for the chosen
design point (Point A) as a function of the normalized radius 𝜌= 𝑟∕𝑎. The shape of
the profile corresponds to the analytical expression used in Eq. (3) for 𝛼𝑇= 1.2 and
𝛼𝑛= 0.35.
case of Stellaris, the requirements are reduced to achieving density
control, detachment and edge radiation control, and potentially con-
trol of the edge island locations through an array of control coils.
If the chosen design point is thermally unstable, an additional con-
trol scheme or confinement degradation scheme should be employed
to achieve burn-control. While density control is widely adopted in
current experimental fusion devices, resilient mechanisms for tem-
perature control are not yet well-established, but are conceptually
straightforward: plasma confinement degradation can be achieved by
tuning coil currents or controlling the tritium fraction in the core.
Alternatively, it may be possible to use electron-cyclotron-current-
drive (ECCD)-induced confinement degradation [144]. We expect the
temperature to be ultimately limited by temperature gradient-driven
turbulence or electromagnetic turbulence, such as kinetic ballooning
modes. However, no tools or workflows currently exist to predict limits
with high confidence.
To contextualize the confinement time model utilized in this section,
we compare the resulting profiles at the operation point against a
higher fidelity transport simulation of the selected stellarator configu-
ration. This simulation assumes that turbulent timescales are distinctly
separated from those governing significant changes in the density and
temperature profiles.
For this analysis, turbulent diffusivities are computed using flux-
tube simulations with GENE [145] and then passed to the transport
solver TANGO [146,147], similar to the approach described in [148].
The transport equations are solved with fixed density profiles, and the
electron and ion temperature values are constrained by a Dirichlet
boundary condition set to 4.2 and 5.2 keV respectively at 𝜌= 0.8,
informed by the assumed kinetic profiles of Fig. 16 at this location.
The GENE simulations are conducted at the flux-tube with field-line
label 𝛼= 0, specifically at 𝜌∈ {0.1, 0.4, 0.6, 0.8}.
To reduce any thermal runaway effects and allow for a more di-
rect comparison of the resulting profiles, we set the power source in
TANGO fix to the fusion heating profile expected at the 0.5 D design
point. We distribute this heating 80% to the electrons and 20% to
the ions, following [149]. Note that by choosing fixed fusion heating
profiles, the resulting profiles will change, while the heating sources
are not updated. The purpose is not a fully integrated, fully consistent
temperature profile simulation, but instead a qualitative comparison
to determine whether the assumed temperature gradients can be sup-
ported by full electrostatic turbulence. For this reason, other radiation
losses, such as Bremsstrahlung, were neglected as a heat sink for the
electrons. In order to obtain the profiles, an iterative loop is established
between the heat fluxes obtained with GENE and the transport solver
TANGO, following a methodology similar to that in [148,150]. The
equilibrium is treated as fixed and is not updated within this simula-
tion workflow. It is worth noting that if electromagnetic effects were
included, one might expect stabilization of turbulence levels, leading to
lower stiffness—provided that the system remains below the threshold
for kinetic ballooning instability. We also remark that the effect of
the neoclassical 𝐸× 𝐵shear is not included in this simulation. Recent
studies show that even moderate neoclassical 𝐸× 𝐵shear in W7-X can
change turbulence levels significantly [151].
Fig. 17 shows the resulting temperature profiles for the given as-
sumptions. We find that the GENE+TANGO results indicate that peak
temperature values of the 0.5 D profiles are supportable by electrostatic
turbulence level within the used model fidelity, when making favorable
assumptions of the edge temperature value. However, the simulations
demonstrate high sensitivity to the assumption of the edge temperature,
which again highlights the importance of coupling core- and edge-
transport simulations for first-principle profile prediction simulations
in stellarators.
On high confinement regimes in stellarators. Before concluding this sec-
tion, we put the assumptions taken on confinement quality into per-
spective: significant uncertainties still exist in predicting the maximum
achievable density and temperatures of a stellarator dominated by
turbulent transport. keVs
Experimentally, a wide range of confinement properties has been
observed in both W7-X and W7-AS. In W7-X, confinement times devi-
ate significantly between ‘ion-temperature clamping’ experiments [65]
and higher performance experiments in quasi-steady state after pellet
injections [75]. In W7-AS, several articles report on high-confinement
(H-Mode) in different forms [47,152,153] with significantly reduced
transport levels.
It has been hypothesized that the ratio of heating power over
plasma boundary surface area, 𝑃∕𝑆, is decisive for achieving the tran-
sition from low- to high-confinement, as seen in tokamaks [32,154]. In
ASDEX-Upgrade (AUG), within 2 < ̄𝑛19 < 6, the 𝑃∕𝑆threshold value to
access H-mode is 𝑃∕𝑆≃ 0.07 MW∕m2. Instead, W7-X has only reached
Fusion Engineering and Design xxx (xxxx) xxx 
10 


===== PDF PAGE 11 =====
J. Lion et al.
Fig. 17. Comparison of the 0.5 D deuterium temperature profile and results of two
electrostatic GENE+TANGO simulations with different assumptions on the boundary
value for the temperature at 𝜌= 0.8. Fixed density profiles and fixed heating power
were assumed and were taken from Design Point A from Table 5. All radiative losses
were neglected for the GENE+TANGO simulations.
a maximum value of 𝑃∕𝑆≃ 0.02 MW∕m2 [32]. For the design point in
this paper, 𝑃∕𝑆is on the order of 1.18 MW∕m2, significantly higher
than the values measured in W7-X and AUG, even when accounting
for respective magnetic field and density dependencies [154]. This
suggests that, if there indeed exists a 𝑃∕𝑆threshold above which H-
mode behavior occurs, the chosen physics design point of Stellaris may
need to be corrected to account for confinement enhancement due to
H-mode. In that case, resilient operation in an electron-root regime
would ensure low impurity retention, addressing a common issue with
many tokamak H-mode regimes. This point alone would justify the need
for an intermediate-step device on the path toward a stellarator power
plant, to determine whether H-mode physics follows analogous patterns
as in tokamaks.
Isotope effects are another potential confinement-enhancing effect
not typically covered in the ISS04 confinement time scaling laws. While
this effect is not significantly observed in the neoclassically dominated
heliotron LHD [155,156], it could still be relevant in optimized stel-
larators where confinement is ultimately limited by turbulence, as is
the case with W7-X and the Stellaris concept. Related multi-machine
regression fits in tokamaks suggest a decrease of turbulence levels for
deuterium-tritium plasmas compared to pure hydrogen plasmas [157],
and initial first-principle studies seem to support those findings [158].
Future deuterium campaigns in W7-X will shed more light on whether
such an effect could be exploited in future stellarator power plant
designs.
2.4. Fueling & density profile control
As indicated by W7-X experiments, density profile control is a highly
promising mechanism to reliably suppress ITG turbulence [74,75,135,
159,160]. The required density steepening can be achieved by either
(a) increasing the core density by means of fueling (with cryogenic
pellets or using neutral beam injection) or leveraging turbulent par-
ticle pinches [49,161,162], or (b) decreasing the edge density, for
example using boronization [163], efficient edge pumping, or active
boron powder injection [164]. An overview of density profile induced
enhancements of plasma performance in W7-X is given in [135].
A stellarator reactor would greatly benefit from the possibility of
externally controlling the steepening of density gradients. As no reliable
predictive capability is yet available for turbulent particle pinches, we
suggest density profile control for Stellaris via both core fueling with
cryogenic pellets and edge fueling via gas puffing.
Fig. 18. (a): the pellet injection location, chosen in the 𝜑= 0 plane (the bean-shaped
plane). (b): corresponding plot of the magnetic field magnitude and the toroidal flux
over a straight line in the bean-shaped plane located at 𝑍= 0 and 𝜑= 0, where 𝑍is
the Cartesian coordinate and 𝑝ℎ𝑖is the cylindrical toroidal angle.
While the technology of pellet injectors is well-established and
has been demonstrated in various experiments [165–170], the pellet
deposition profiles cannot yet be fully simulated predicatively, and first
simulations are just becoming available [171]. From these simulations,
it is understood that the plasmoid drift effect that enables central
fueling is strongest if the pellet injection takes place from a high-
field region of the machine. Experimental studies show less pronounced
sensitivities of the injection path to high- and low-field side [172].
Other control parameters, such as pellet sizes and injection speeds, are
relatively inefficient to achieve central fueling.
We therefore propose the installation of a high-frequency pellet
injector on the inboard side of the machine (e.g. in the bean-shaped
plane of the stellarator plasma), where the distance in real space
between the outermost plasma layer and the center is the smallest.
Fig. 18 offers a visualization of the injection location in the bean
shaped plane. Launching the pellet from a high-field region of the
machine maximizes the plasmoid drift effects according to current
understanding [171], potentially enhancing central fuel deposition. In
the concept presented in this paper, the space in the high-field side
bean plane is densely filled with structural material, posing a challenge
for installing a pellet port. However, the port opening can be as small
as 10 mm in diameter, as the cryogenic pellets are usually only a few
millimeters wide. Dedicated studies are needed to determine the port
opening that maximizes central fueling efficiency.
Gas puffing is used in almost all tokamak and stellarator exper-
iments, and is an established method for plasma startup and edge
fueling. Further research is needed, both theoretically and on experi-
mental devices, to determine how the penetration of gas fueling via the
plasma edge is expected to vary in large and high-density stellarators,
where neutral particles may be unable to reach the confinement re-
gion. Analogous challenges exist for high-field, high-density tokamaks,
where gas fueling is considered a control variable. Given uncertainties
regarding gas penetration through the edge, we consider high-speed
pellet injectors to be an important necessity for Stellaris.
2.5. Heating
There are different schemes available for heating fusion plasmas, of
which the most promising are:
• Ion Cyclotron Resonance Heating (ICRH) [173–175], which re-
quires installing antennas within the plasma vessel, resulting in
antenna straps being in contact with the plasma—and therefore
usually needing to be protected by highly conducting Faraday
shield bars. With such a heating scheme, sputtering naturally
occurs at the antenna, resulting in a significant impurity source
for the core plasma. Additionally, the effect of strong, unshielded
neutron irradiation on the antennas must be considered;
Fusion Engineering and Design xxx (xxxx) xxx 
11 


===== PDF PAGE 12 =====
J. Lion et al.
• Lower Hybrid Heating (LHH) [176,177], which also needs launch-
ers that are close to the plasma;
• Neutral Beam Injection (NBI) is seen as difficult for reactor ap-
plications due to large port requirements, which cause prob-
lems with tritium breeding performance and free neutron stream-
ing [178]. The negative ion NBI apparatus reaching MeV energies
for reactor applications also poses major challenges for economic
viability of the reactor, due to large capital costs. Wall-plug
efficiencies of NBI systems typically remain below 30% [179];
• Electron Cyclotron Resonance Heating (ECRH), which features
high levels of theoretical understanding at both an engineer-
ing and physics level. Reactor-relevant ECRH technology was
demonstrated by W7-X [180–183] and ECRH systems will also
be implemented in ITER [184] and DTT [185–187] in addition to
being conceptualized for EU-DEMO [188,189]. While W7-X uses a
quasi-optical transmission in air, DTT and DEMO will use evacu-
ated quasi-optical transmission systems. ITER, on the other hand,
will make use of overmoded waveguides. ECRH offers particularly
a high technological readiness level for reactor applications;
• Other heating schemes, such as Transit Time Magnetic Pump-
ing [190] and Alfvén Wave Heating [191–194], have been inves-
tigated experimentally, but have not received widespread accep-
tance and are not considered in more detail here.
Due to the above arguments and wide acceptance for reactor applica-
tions [188,189], we have selected ECRH as the primary heating method
for Stellaris. The microwaves used for this technology are generated by
a set of MW-class microwave sources that can be installed far away
from the torus hall and can be guided through a system of actively
cooled mirrors (as in W7-X, DTT and DEMO) or waveguides (as in ITER)
toward the injection port. Such a concept is highly attractive, as the
complexity of the heating system can be mostly decoupled from that of
the torus building.
Gyrotrons are the only known microwave sources capable of provid-
ing the necessary MW-class output power as continuous waves [195–
197]. Hence, gyrotrons are used in all large-scale magnetic confinement
fusion devices that use ECRH.
For ITER, the gyrotron efficiency is expected to be 50% [184],
leveraging beam energy recuperation via a depressed collector [198].
As of today, most gyrotron designs use Single-stage Depressed Col-
lectors (SDCs). In the future, Multi-stage Depressed Collectors might
increase the gyrotron efficiency to above 60% [199–202], making it
an attractive heating solution even for steady-state applications in
non-ignited plasma scenarios.
While W7-X now uses a gyrotron class of 1.0 MW and 1.5 MW
operating at 140 GHz [203], ITER will operate with 170 GHz gy-
rotrons [204]. For future high-field machines to be heated via ECRH, it
is necessary to demonstrate efficient operation of 240 GHz high-power
gyrotrons. The technological development of gyrotrons is constantly
progressing toward higher power and higher frequencies [200,205–
207], ultimately enabling higher magnetic fields and more economical
operation.
For the heating scheme of Stellaris, we propose using the first
ordinary (O1) mode as the default scheme, noting that it has been well-
studied for ITER [208]. To ensure that high-density plasmas can be
heated, we choose the location of ports such that the first extraordinary
(X1) mode can also be used. The X1 mode would permit heating far
from the plasma cut-off density 𝑛crit
𝑋1 , which is given by the constraint
𝑛𝑒< 𝑛crit
𝑋1 = 2 𝑚𝑒𝜖0
𝑒2
𝜔2
gyro,
(4)
where 𝑛𝑒is the electron density, 𝑚𝑒is the electron mass, 𝑒is the elemen-
tary charge and 𝜔gyro is the local electron gyro-frequency. Although not
yet experimentally investigated in stellarators, X1 mode heating is well-
studied in tokamaks [209,210]. A requirement for X1 mode heating is
a port design that allows a beamline with a monotonically decaying
magnetic field strength to permit wave propagation. It is worth noting
that X1 mode heating from a high-field region would heat the high-
energy tail of the electron distribution function. Further study is needed
to determine how this would impact plasma performance.
The injection beam path for the proposed device is illustrated in
Fig. 19, showing an access point on the inboard side of the device. This
unusual placement of an ECRH port not only enables the injection of
the ECRH via a high-field region, but also frees access at the outboard
side of the device, easing remote maintenance requirements. This is
especially relevant for the remote maintenance concept of Stellaris,
which uses sector splitting, as described in Section 2.11. It is worth
noting that inboard access ports are particularly enabled by the high
aspect ratio of Stellaris, and likely cannot be replicated in a comparable
tokamak at lower aspect ratio.
A total of eight ports, each with 300 mm of diameter and a circular
cross-section, are situated between the coils on the inboard side of
every half module. Stress analyses (presented in Section 2.10) indicate
that peak stresses around the port opening stay within design limits.
The ECRH ports are installed with stellarator symmetry and can be
adjusted to include a non-zero toroidal component. This set-up allows
for the possibility of canceling small amounts of residual net toroidal
currents by varying the relative ECRH power between the stellarator-
symmetric ports, without requiring movable mirrors near the vessel or
remote-steering launchers.
The port diameter was chosen to be as small as is reasonably
possible in order to mitigate degradation of the tritium breeding per-
formance of the blanket. Still, in reality, specific neutron shielding
techniques would need to be employed, such as a labyrinth path to
ensure that free neutron streaming through the port is minimized. Such
considerations are outside the scope of this paper.
We anticipate Stellaris to operate with 50 MW of ECRH power in
the plasma, necessitating approximately 6.25 MW of power to be trans-
mitted through each port. To achieve this, we propose a configuration
of 7 waveguides per port with outer diameters of 90 mm, fitting well
within the 300 mm circular cross-section of the ports. Each waveguide
would have an inner diameter of 60 mm, close to the design of the ECRH
upper launchers for ITER, which have inner diameters of 50 mm [211].
Assuming a transmission loss of 10% between the gyrotron output
and the launcher, each port would require seven 1 MW gyrotrons to
deliver approximately 6.3 MW into the plasma. Greater margins could
be achieved by increasing the output power per gyrotron, providing
greater flexibility and robustness in achieving the desired power levels.
We remark that the high mirror ratio of QI stellarators allows for
the use of a broad range of gyrotron frequencies, as the gyrofrequency
scales linearly with the magnetic field strength. In this study, the
magnetic field strength at the plasma boundary varies between 7.3 T
and 13 T in the toroidal direction, corresponding to gyro-frequencies
ranging from 200 GHz to 363 GHz. To minimize the required gyrotron
frequencies, the chosen port location enables heating close to the
toroidal low-field region of the stellarator, shown on the right-hand-
side of Fig. 19. The potential effects of a resulting skewed distribution
function of the electron population caused by the heating of trapped
particles at the bottom of the magnetic mirror are yet to be investigated,
but may be sufficiently small when the dominant heating term is the
fusion heating at the operation point.
In order to validate the contention that wave absorption can take
place with the given port set-up, we plot the local gyro- (electron
cyclotron) frequency and the cut-off density along the beam-path in
the plasma. Fig. 20 shows the cold resonance at ⟨𝛽⟩𝑉= 0% and ⟨𝛽⟩𝑉=
2% along the chosen beam-path in a cross section of the plasma, as
well as the relativistically shifted broadening of the resonance. We
chose a value of ⟨𝛽⟩𝑉
= 2% for the analysis here as the auxiliary
heating is maximized between 1% and 2% volume averaged plasma
𝛽, as shown in earlier in Fig. 15. We model the relativistic shift
on the gyro-frequency by employing a Maxwell-Jüttner distribution;
the broadening experienced at the target design point (Point A from
Table 5) is shown in Fig. 21. Fig. 21 visualizes this information again
Fusion Engineering and Design xxx (xxxx) xxx 
12 


===== PDF PAGE 14 =====
J. Lion et al.
Fig. 23. Visualization of edge islands (colored tubes) together with the LCFS of the
plasma boundary in vacuum (semi-transparent) in side and top view. Dark red plates
show the discrete target plates of the island divertor as used for the analysis in this
section.
remains viable, as it allows for effective heating despite higher plasma
densities due to its higher cut-off density.
2.6. The island divertor
QI stellarators, through their minimization of parallel plasma cur-
rents, allow for several stable X-points induced by deliberately placed
magnetic islands at the plasma edge. The island divertor concept is an
attractive candidate for a stellarator reactor due to its ease of access
to detached conditions [41], its observed large wetted areas [38], and
its comparably high technological readiness level, compared to other
stellarator divertor concepts. Compared to tokamaks, stellarators with
an island divertor usually feature very large connection lengths [39],
which broaden strike lines on divertor plates due to the effect of cross-
field transport over long physical distances [39]. While stellarators at
reactor scale can have connection lengths in the range of kilometers,
typical tokamak values range between 5 and 50 m for comparable
machines [212].
The island divertor has been well studied in W7-X [37,42,213], al-
though the W7-X open geometry has been found to provide insufficient
neutral gas compression for effective pumping and density control. For
Stellaris, we propose using a shape-optimized tungsten-based island
divertor that operates with strong detachment in steady-state. This
section describes initial efforts toward such a design.
For an island divertor to function effectively, it is crucial to suffi-
ciently suppress the bootstrap current to prevent significant changes in
the rotational transform at the plasma edge. Such changes could shift
the location of the magnetic islands relative to the installed divertor
plates, potentially preventing the desired intersection between the is-
lands and the target plates. Keeping the resonant island structures intact
ensures that the magnetic islands consistently intersect the divertor
target plates at the intended locations. As shown in Fig. 8, the total
bootstrap current for the stellarator design is calculated to be approxi-
mately 23 kA. This low value supports the use of resonant islands at the
edge to create the required X-points, as the edge rotational transform
is only calculated to change by 0.5% from vacuum conditions to the
equilibrium where the steady-state bootstrap current is achieved.
Fig. 13 shows that the stellarator concept presented in this paper
offers the desired magnetic island chain at the edge across a wide range
of plasma 𝛽values, from start-up (where no kinetic pressure is present
in the stellarator) to the final plasma 𝛽(where the islands are slightly
larger, but still preserved). This feature is necessary for installing a set
of divertor plates at the edge that cross the islands.
To meet the functional requirements of a divertor solution, the
system must efficiently exhaust particles while managing the heat
fluxes that impact material surfaces. Additionally, the divertor must
support robust tritium recycling and effectively remove helium ash. A
number of these issues are currently being addressed within a design
effort to upgrade the Wendelstein 7-X divertor, including tungsten-
based plasma-facing components and enhanced geometrical features for
Fig. 24. Visualization of target plates (black) in the cross section at toroidal angle
of 𝜑= 45◦, superposed with a Poincaré plot of the vacuum field. 𝑅is the cylindrical
major radius (which is 0 in the center of the device) and 𝑍is the Cartesian coordinate.
improved neutral gas pumping efficiency [214].
In this paper, we focus primarily on demonstrating the feasibility of
placing a set of target plates that intersect the 4/4 island chain, with an
emphasis on the thermal aspects of the divertor design. Other critical
aspects of the Stellaris divertor – such as recycling efficiency, ash re-
moval, neutral gas compression, and erosion rates – are acknowledged,
but left for further exploration in subsequent studies.
The divertor plates proposed for Stellaris are optimized to limit heat
loads by following a two-step design approach, as outlined in [215].
In the first step, the plates are strategically positioned and adjusted
to ensure that a significant portion of the power crossing the Scrape-
Off Layer (SOL) is captured by the plates. The second step involves
optimizing the length of the plates to ensure that the heat loads remain
below the desired flux limits. This approach aims to minimize the
divertor plate area, while ensuring that heat flux constraints are met.
A smaller divertor area is beneficial because it reduces the absorp-
tion of neutrons that are crucial for tritium breeding in the breeding
blanket, a topic further explored in Section 2.8. The location of the
target plates is illustrated in Fig. 23, showing a 3D visualization of
their placement, and in Fig. 24, where we display a cross section at
𝜑= 45◦. Unlike typical tokamak designs [212] and similar to the design
of the W7-X divertor [216], the selected divertor plates are toroidally
discontinuous.
To model the resulting heat flux, we utilize the code EMC3-Lite
[217]. The physics model employed by EMC3-Lite is based on an
anisotropic heat diffusion model along a set of field lines within a 3D
geometry, described by the equation
𝜅𝑒
𝑛𝑒
∇2
∥𝑇+ 𝜒⟂∇2
⟂𝑇= 0,
(5)
where the Bohm sheath boundary condition [218,219] is applied as
𝑄∥,PFC = −𝜅𝑒∇∥𝑇PFC = 𝑛𝑐𝑠𝛾 𝑇PFC.
(6)
In this context, 𝜅𝑒
=
𝜅𝑒0𝑇5∕2 represents the Spitzer heat conduc-
tivity [220,221], with 𝜅𝑒0 being a constant and 𝑇the temperature
(assumed identical for ions and electrons). Here, 𝑛𝑒denotes the elec-
tron density, and 𝜒⟂is the perpendicular thermal diffusivity, which
accounts for turbulent transport. 𝑄∥,PFC represents the parallel heat flux
(expressed as power per unit area) on the Plasma Facing Components
(PFCs), while 𝑇PFC refers to the plasma temperature at the PFCs. The
ion sound speed, 𝑐𝑠, is given by
√
2𝑘𝐵𝑇∕𝑚𝑖, where 𝑘𝐵is the Boltzmann
constant and 𝑚𝑖is the ion mass, with 𝛾being the sheath transmission
factor.
A key advantage of the EMC3-Lite model compared to commonly
employed diffusive field line tracing (DFLT) methods [222–227] is
Fusion Engineering and Design xxx (xxxx) xxx 
14 


===== PDF PAGE 16 =====
J. Lion et al.
Fig. 26. Visualization of the chosen first wall geometry, which leaves sufficient space
for the divertor target plates crossing the magnetic islands, shown here in different
colors for qualitative distinction. The chosen first wall geometry is the same across all
analyses in this paper.
magnetic islands that are used for the island divertor solution, and is
shaped to maximize the breeder volume outside of it (see Fig. 26 for a
visualization of the geometry).
While multiple first wall concepts for stellarators are currently being
explored, we select a straightforward approach for this analysis: a solid
EUROFER97 wall with a 2 mm-thick tungsten armor serving as the
plasma-facing surface. This choice is justified by the low loss of fast
particles, as demonstrated in Fig. 6, which permits the use of a solid
wall rather than more complex designs—such as those requiring liquid
walls to handle highly localized heat loads due to significant losses of
fusion-born 𝛼particles.
The first wall in this design incorporates several rectangular cooling
channels running in the toroidal direction, utilizing pressurized helium
gas as the primary coolant. We simulate helium at 8 MPa with an inlet
temperature of 350 ◦C; the helium’s outlet temperature is computed
dynamically and is below 370 ◦C. Here inlet temperature refers to the
temperature at the front of the first wall; similarly, the outlet temperature
is the temperature of the helium after flowing along the plasma-facing
side. Our study does not take into account the other two sides of
the first wall module. The conceptual dimensions of this first wall
design are illustrated in Fig. 27. Although an interlayer between the
EUROFER97 and tungsten layers will be included in the actual design,
it is omitted from our model due to its negligible impact on the overall
temperature distribution.
It is important to note that the feasibility of this manufacturing
process will be the focus of subsequent studies. However, we empha-
size that the helium-cooled lithium lead (HCLL) blanket design serves
as a precedent, indicating the potential practicality of our proposed
approach.
In estimating the first wall temperature, we begin by calculating the
heat loads consistent with the design point outlined in Section 2.3 and
100% radiation of the heating power. The radiation source is divided
into two parts: core radiation and edge radiation.
First, core radiation is computed using the ‘0.5D-profiles’ introduced
in Section 2.3, considering contributions from Bremsstrahlung, tung-
sten impurity radiation, and synchrotron radiation. For edge radiation,
we model a Gaussian profile centered around 𝜌= 1 (discarding any
emission at 𝜌 > 1) to represent line radiation from partially ionized
impurities, such as Argon or Krypton [239]. These impurities would
need to be injected into the plasma to enable significant radiation of the
core heating power, facilitating a radiating edge and achieving divertor
detachment. Fig. 28 illustrates the combined emission region in one
cross section of the plasma from both core and edge as assumed and
calculated for the first wall power estimates.
Fig. 27. Cross section at constant toroidal angle through the first wall design as used
for the FEM analysis in this section. Actual dimensions are 𝐻= 12 mm, 𝑊= 12 mm,
𝑤= 5 mm, 𝐿= 27 mm, 𝑑= 3 mm, ℎ= 5 mm. Channel cross sections are square in our
study for ease of modeling, but would be rounded in the actual wall. The wall section
in our model is a single strip wrapping around the poloidal direction, mainly due to
the fact that we have not fixed a tile design yet. This is not fully realistic, but it allows
us to perform a reliable analysis. The sector is defined by the toroidal angle and the
channels follow the parametrization of the surface, meaning they are not all the same
length, but they are all around one meter long.
Fig. 28. Cross section through the plasma illustrating emission from both the plasma
core (green color legend) and edge (red color legend).
The first wall is also subjected to a volumetric heat load due to
neutrons produced by fusion reactions in the plasma. We include this
aspect in our model and simulations by incorporating the power density
data presented in the later Section 2.8, visually represented in Fig. 37.
We determine the peak temperatures in the first wall using a two-
step process. First, to calculate the heat load on the first wall, we follow
the method suggested in [240], where the first wall power density, 𝑝𝑊,
is obtained by integrating over a source volume 𝑉:
𝑝𝑊= ∫𝑉
𝜙𝑠
4𝜋‖⃗𝑟𝑊−⃗𝑟𝑆‖2
(
⃗𝑛⋅
⃗𝑟𝑊−⃗𝑟𝑆
‖⃗𝑟𝑊−⃗𝑟𝑆‖
)
𝑑 𝑉 .
(7)
Here, 𝜙𝑠is the local emission; ⃗𝑟𝑆is the position vector of the source;
⃗𝑟𝑊is the position vector to the wall; and ⃗𝑛is the normal vector of the
wall.
To implement this method, a regularization is necessary. We choose
to set the heat flux from a volume element on a surface area to zero
if the distance exceeds a characteristic length for the machine; in this
case, 8 m, since for the chosen configuration, this is a clear upper bound
on the distance between two points that have a direct line of sight to
each other. When computing the integral in Eq. (7) numerically, we set
the integrand to zero for contributions that satisfy
(
⃗𝑛⋅
⃗𝑟𝑊−⃗𝑟𝑆
‖⃗𝑟𝑊−⃗𝑟𝑆‖
)
< 0.
We verified a posteriori that this algorithm works effectively, as the
total emitted power from the LCFS and the total absorbed power by
Fusion Engineering and Design xxx (xxxx) xxx 
16 


===== PDF PAGE 17 =====
J. Lion et al.
Fig. 29. Visualization of the calculated first wall heat loads, distinguished by source.
The left-hand half shows the received core radiation, the right-hand half the received
edge radiation. Strong deviations in the toroidal and poloidal direction are observed.
The total power at the wall is the sum of both sources and its values span the range
0.18 MW m−2 to 0.77 MW m−2.
Fig. 30. Simulated temperature in a toroidal segment of the first wall, using the meth-
ods and parameters described in the text. With the current design, peak temperatures
are simulated to stay below 500 ◦C and peak in the central module.
the first wall differ by only about 2%. The volume integral is carried
out in VMEC coordinates [241], and the Jacobian determinant √𝑔is
obtained directly from the VMEC code.
In the second step, we solve the heat equation as a Finite Element
problem within a small toroidal section of the first wall. To obtain a
conservative estimate, we select a section that includes the geometry
points with the highest anticipated radiation load; the volumetric neu-
tron load does not show significant enough variability to affect the
results if we changed section. For simplicity, the analysis omits the
divertor plates, recognizing that they could potentially shield some of
the heat loads on the first wall. We also assume that all radiation is
absorbed in the first layer of the wall, which we model as a Neumann
boundary condition in the Finite Element analysis. Any reflection or
black-body radiation effects of the first wall are neglected.
The method employed for this calculation is detailed in Appendix B.
The power loading on the first wall, distinguished by source is shown in
Fig. 29. The resulting temperature distribution for this design is shown
in Fig. 30. With the given assumptions, the steady-state temperature
remains below 500 ◦C—a design limit typically imposed for EURO-
FER97 steels [238]. We conclude that a helium-cooled first wall can be
designed to withstand the heat fluxes anticipated for the high power
density design point proposed in this study. We note that evaluating
thermal stresses due to temperature asymmetries is beyond the scope
of this study, and warrants further investigation.
2.8. Lithium blanket & neutron shield
In this section, we explore a potential breeding blanket and shield
design for Stellaris. Research on stellarator breeding blankets in the
Fig. 31. The geometry used in the neutronics simulations. Light green is the first wall,
orange is the homogenized breeding blanket, blue is the neutron shield, gray is the
vacuum vessel and green are the divertor modules. Coils are shown in turquoise. The
brown section shows the sector interface that will be introduced in Section 2.11.
literature addresses a range of topics, from balance of plant con-
siderations [242] to detailed neutronics analyses [64,243–248] and
evaluations of structural capabilities [249,250].
Previous investigations into stellarator breeding blanket concepts
have primarily focused on dual-cooled lithium-lead and helium-cooled
pebble bed designs as potential breeders. These concepts aim to opti-
mize both tritium breeding and structural integrity, balancing neutron
economy with effective heat transfer and material endurance.
However, prior reactor studies for stellarators have consistently
highlighted a critical challenge: the close proximity of the optimized
stellarator coils to the plasma. This proximity has been shown to be
insufficient to provide adequate neutron shielding, posing a significant
risk to the integrity and longevity of the coils in realistic reactor
settings [52,64]. Furthermore, the limited distance between the plasma
and the coils has been identified as the primary constraint on overall
machine size, directly influencing the feasibility of achieving a viable
reactor configuration [12]. The Stellaris concept strategically addresses
this challenge. By ensuring that the coils are positioned farther away
from the plasma in relative terms, this design provides greater space
for tritium breeding and neutron shielding, allowing the overall reactor
size to be reduced. The blanket concept itself was chosen from different
available options and finally adapted to match a set of requirements
that is in line with the overall machine design.
In the current breeding blanket design, the primary tritium breeding
material is a liquid lead-lithium (PbLi) eutectic alloy with 16 atomic
percent lithium. This material serves a dual role as a neutron multiplier
and tritium carrier. The liquid breeding material allows for drainage
to ease remote maintenance operations. The breeding zone is actively
cooled using water at pressurized water reactor (PWR) conditions,
ensuring efficient thermal management. EUROFER97, a low-activation
steel known for its structural integrity under fusion-relevant conditions,
is selected as the structural material for the blanket [251]. The nuclear
data cross sections for the materials are derived from the ENDF/B-VIII.0
library [252], with interpolations adjusted for material temperature.
To further enhance neutron management, an In-vessel Neutron Shield
(INS) composed primarily of tungsten-carbide (WC) is incorporated.
This material not only serves as a neutron shield, but also functions as
a neutron reflector, effectively increasing the backscatter to the blanket
and boosting the tritium breeding ratio (TBR).
The Vacuum Vessel (VV) design is modeled after the EU DEMO
project [253], utilizing SS316LN as the structural material. The design
includes a neutron shield in the bulk cooling region, with a thickness
reduced from the originally proposed 60 mm to 50 mm. Boron-carbide
(BC) is chosen for the shield due to its superior absorption cross section
in the thermal neutron range compared to WC.
Active cooling is essential for maintaining the structural integrity
of the breeding blanket, as the chosen structural material, EUROFER97,
has a maximum operating temperature limit of 550 ◦C [254]. The breed-
ing blanket’s composition is optimized for both thermal management
and tritium breeding, consisting of 73.5% PbLi eutectic, 12.5% water,
Fusion Engineering and Design xxx (xxxx) xxx 
17 


===== PDF PAGE 18 =====
J. Lion et al.
Fig. 32. Cross section visualization of the radial build at the 𝜑= 0, 𝜑= 𝜋∕8 and
𝜑= 𝜋∕4 cross sections (where 𝜑is the cylindrical toroidal angle). The thin green line
is the first wall, red is the homogenized breeding blanket, blue is the shield, and white
is the vacuum vessel. Note that the divertor is not included in this visualization.
and 14% EUROFER97 by volume. This composition accounts for the
segmentation effect in the structural budget, ensuring the blanket’s
performance and durability.
To achieve a tritium breeding ratio (TBR) above 1.05, considered
sufficient to close the fusion fuel cycle [255], a lithium-6 enrichment
level of 70 % has been chosen.
The decision to use a water-cooled breeding blanket simplifies the
power plant’s primary and secondary cycles, aligning them with those
of a conventional PWR. The high water content in the blanket has
a significant thermalization effect, which shifts the neutron spectrum
toward thermal energies—increasing the reaction rate and improving
tritium production. Additionally, the high heat capacity of water com-
pared to gas cooling reduces the need for large cooling ports, which
helps in optimizing the overall design.
The first wall, as described earlier, is proposed to be helium-cooled,
while the breeding blanket utilizes water cooling. This necessitates the
use of two distinct cooling loops. The choice of helium cooling in
the first wall is driven by two main considerations. First, the lower
pressure in the helium loop allows for a thinner first wall, enhancing
thermal efficiency. Second, helium cooling offers greater resilience
against critical heat flux events, which are particularly challenging to
manage in high-pressure water cooling systems.
For the breeding blanket segmentation, one potential configuration
is the single module segment (SMS) design [256]. In this configuration,
each toroidal section of the reactor is split into poloidal segments
approximately every meter. Each segment is supplied independently to
ensure modularity and improve detectability of failures within a mod-
ule. Within each segment, the manifold configuration directs helium
through back manifolds located behind the neutron shield, routing it ra-
dially toward the first wall, while the breeding blanket’s water cooling
system is fed through separate manifolds and distributed poloidally.
This modular approach reduces the need for complex manifold
systems at the back of the blanket, thereby creating more space for a
sufficiently large INS. The simplified geometry of the SMS design not
only facilitates maintenance but also enhances the overall efficiency of
neutron shielding and tritium breeding, making it a compelling choice
for the reactor’s blanket configuration.
Given the varying plasma-to-coil distance across different poloidal
and toroidal positions, we implement variable thicknesses for both the
blanket and the shield. This design strategy enables the optimization of
TBR while ensuring adequate neutron shielding at the cryogenic coils.
For instance, the INS thickness at various toroidal angles is shown in
Fig. 32, with a minimum thickness of 100 mm and a maximum thickness
of 225 mm. Additionally, the averaged thicknesses for each layer of the
radial build are illustrated in Fig. 34. To optimize the thickness of
the INS, we use a simple one-dimensional exponential decay model
for the fast neutron flux within the radial build, using two material
fractions for INS and BB. In particular, we vary the shielding thickness,
using a fixed first wall and outer shield surface, in order to minimize
Fig. 33. The distribution of the neutron wall load on the first wall of Stellaris operating
in full power, at 2700 MW fusion power.
Fig. 34. Averaged component thicknesses and gaps of the radial build. Values are only
approximate, as large variations in both toroidal and poloidal directions exist.
the neutron flux variation in a point-by-point fashion. The choices of
materials for INS and BB are kept constant during this optimization.
In the following neutronics simulations, we employ the 3D neu-
tron Monte-Carlo simulation code OpenMC [257,258], integrated with
DAGMC [259] for efficient particle transport simulations. The CAD-to-
DAGMC tool [260] was utilized to convert the detailed CAD geometry
into a meshed representation suitable for the analysis. A comprehen-
sive three-dimensional (3D) 90-degree reactor model is initialized,
incorporating multiple material layers, each homogenized into a single
OpenMC material for simplification. The reactor geometry used in the
neutronics analysis is depicted in Fig. 31, which illustrates the various
reactor layers, including the magnets described separately by their
casings and winding packs. For the particle sources, we employ a
neutron source function based on the plasma profiles introduced in Sec-
tion 2.3, utilizing the nuclear reaction rates from [137]. The neutronics
simulations presented in this section are consistent across both physics
design Point A and Point B, as defined in Table 5, because the fusion
power remains constant and the effects of plasma temperature on the
neutron source distribution are neglected.
To approximate the neutron source, we use a monoenergetic source
at 14.06 MeV, with the spatial distribution discretized into 30 radial
points, 50 poloidal points, and 100 toroidal points. This source is
then represented as multiple point sources in the OpenMC simulation
environment. The resulting neutron wall load is shown in Fig. 33, using
the method proposed in [240].
We proceed to analyze the chosen breeding blanket and shielding
concept through five key evaluation steps:
• Tritium Breeding Ratio Analysis: We assess whether the design
achieves sufficient tritium breeding using a multi-layer 3D model
that includes separately homogenized materials for each layer.
• Power Multiplication: Due to endo- and exothermal nuclear reac-
tions within the blanket, we estimate to which degree the total
neutron power is amplified by the blanket, a critical value to
estimate the commercial viability of a fusion power plant.
• Neutron Shielding for Superconductor Protection: We evaluate
the effectiveness of neutron shielding in minimizing fast neutron
flux into the superconducting coils—ensuring long operational
Fusion Engineering and Design xxx (xxxx) xxx 
18 


===== PDF PAGE 19 =====
J. Lion et al.
lifetimes for the device, as fast neutron fluences are measured
to significantly degrade the performance of superconducting coils
after 3 × 1022 m−2 [261]. The neutron fluence on the copper
stabilizer should also be considered as the conductivity has been
shown to reduce with neutron irradiation by 5% after a neutron
fluence of 1.5 × 1023 m−2 [262]. One strategy to potentially address
a conductivity decrease would be to make the copper stabilizer
thicker to accommodate the anticipated decrease in conductivity.
• Neutron Shielding for Cryogenic Area Protection: We determine
whether the neutron shielding sufficiently reduces nuclear heat-
ing in the cryogenic regions to acceptable levels, ensuring the
integrity of the cryogenic components.
• Lifetime Estimation of Key Components: We estimate the opera-
tional lifetime of the main components of the machine, consider-
ing the neutron flux and the resulting material degradation over
time.
Safety and activation calculations, as well as structural and thermal
simulations, fall outside the scope of this analysis.
Tritium breeding ratio analysis. We performed a neutronics simulation
using 15 × 106 particles per batch over 5 batches, tallying TBR, nuclear
heating, and neutron flux. Periodic boundary conditions were applied
at the 𝜑= 0 and 𝜑= 𝜋∕2 surfaces, where 𝜑represents the toroidal
angle. No particle loss was observed during the simulation, ensuring
accurate results.
The simulation was focused solely on neutron transport, with the
nuclear heating tally assuming that secondary gamma power is de-
posited locally. The computed TBR, accounting for the remote main-
tenance solution discussed in Section 2.11 and a conceptual divertor
model, is 1.1070 ± 0.0002. After considering a 3% reduction due to the
heating ports, the final TBR stands at 1.074, which includes margins to
account for uncertainties and potential incomplete models.
Power multiplication. Using the same 3D neutronic simulation that was
employed for the TBR calculation, we also tallied the power multiplica-
tion within the blanket, which primarily results from exothermal (Li-6,
n) reactions. From this analysis, we obtained a power multiplication
factor of 1.2. The initial 2160 MW of neutron power produced by
the reactor is thus amplified within the blanket to a nuclear power of
approximately 2611 MW. This thermal power is what can be extracted
from the blanket and shield systems, contributing to the overall energy
balance of the power plant. Corresponding simulation results are shown
in Fig. 37.
Neutron shielding for superconductor protection. To ensure sufficient sta-
tistical accuracy in the estimation of fast neutron fluxes in the volume
of the superconducting magnets, we performed a dedicated simulation
with a total of 2.5 × 109 Monte Carlo particles.
The resulting fast neutron flux (𝐸𝑛> 0.1 MeV) at the magnets is
illustrated in Fig. 36. The average fast neutron flux is estimated to
be 1.8 × 1013 1∕m2∕s. As the statistics of the Monte Carlo simulation
even at 2.5 × 109 launched particles is particularly low, and assuming
local shielding can be used in severely loaded sections, we consider
the 99th quantile for the lifetime estimation of the coils due to fast
neutron flux, which is about 9.5 × 1013 1∕m2∕s. Estimating the allowable
fluence for ReBCO superconductors (from degradation of the critical
current density in the superconductor by fission neutrons [261]) as
3 × 1022 1∕m2, the magnet system would have a lifetime of approximately
10 full power years at a fusion power of 2700 MW.
Additionally, the neutron spectra at the coils are presented in
Fig. 35, providing further insight into the distribution of neutron energy
levels impacting the superconducting magnets.
Fig. 35. Neutron flux per unit lethargy, as obtained from OpenMC with the set-
up described in the text. The spectra describe the winding pack of all six coils
independently at full power.
Fig. 36. Fast neutron flux, as obtained from OpenMC with the set-up described in
the text. The figure shows the unstructured mesh tally on the magnet. The maximum
neutron flux is 7.27 × 1013 1∕m2∕s∕GWf (neutron flux normalized by GW fusion power),
and the mean value is 6.6 × 1012 1∕m2∕s∕GWf.
Neutron shielding for cryogenic area protection. For the nuclear heating
at the winding pack, we obtain an average value of 35.5 W∕m3. This
heat load will need to be managed by the cryo-plant of Stellaris and
is in the order of the EU DEMO target, which is about 50 W∕m3 peak
nuclear heating [263].
However, it is important to note that the EU DEMO requirement is
designed for a 4 K cryogenic environment, whereas the magnets in Stel-
laris are anticipated to be cooled to 20 K. Operating at this higher tem-
perature offers an increase in efficiency of the cryogenic plant. Overall,
maintaining an average nuclear heating below 50 W∕m3 is considered
an applicable reference for ensuring viable power plant efficiency,
considering the parasitic power consumption by the cryo-plant.
It should also be noted that local differences in nuclear heating
power density can lead to local temperature variations within the
winding pack, which again can affect quench behavior. However, these
temperature differences are highly dependent on the detailed cooling
design within the winding pack and a respective analysis is left for
further studies.
Lifetime estimation of key components. To estimate the operational life-
time of key reactor components, we calculate the Displacements-Per-
Atom (DPA) in regions experiencing the highest neutron flux, specifi-
cally the first wall and the divertor.
Neutron damage was tallied using OpenMC via the ‘444 Microscopic
Cross-Section Type (MT) reaction’ for iron isotopes in the first wall and
copper isotopes in the divertor. DPA values were evaluated using two
models: the NRT model [264] and the more recently developed ARC
model [265].
The ARC model, which has shown good agreement with molecular
dynamics simulations, particularly at higher energies [266], provides
Fusion Engineering and Design xxx (xxxx) xxx 
19 


===== PDF PAGE 21 =====
J. Lion et al.
Table 6
Key neutronics values as obtained from a 3D OpenMC calculation. FPY are full power
years. ‘Power Multiplication’ is sometimes also called ‘Energy Multiplication’ in the
literature.
Description
Value
TBR
1.074
Power Multiplication
1.20
Fast neutron flux (99th quantile) at coils [1∕m2s]
9.5 × 1013
Coil lifetime (99th quantile) [FPY]
∼10
Peak fast neutron flux at coils [1∕m2s]
2.0 × 1014
Peak DPA in the first wall [DPA∕FPY]
10.7
Estimated first wall structure lifetime [FPY]
∼4–6
Peak nuclear heating (blanket) [MW∕m3]
35
Mean cryogenic nuclear heating (winding pack) [W∕m3]
35.5
the safety margin relative to the yield strength limit might be exceeded.
Going forward, several strategies could be employed to manage
elevated neutron irradiation levels, including:
• Targeted Replacement of High-DPA Sections: replacing only the
first wall sections experiencing the highest Displacements-Per-
Atom (DPA) levels could be an efficient strategy. These targeted
replacements would not only extend the overall reactor lifespan,
but also provide valuable samples for material characterization
under high DPA conditions, contributing to better understanding
and prediction of material behavior. Analysis of first wall replace-
ment has not been performed, but it may be necessary to limit the
amount of first wall replacements so that such replacements can
be carried out during scheduled maintenance periods.
• Increasing Radial Distance Between Plasma and First Wall: by
increasing the distance between the plasma and the first wall,
the neutron flux density at the wall can be reduced, lowering the
DPA rate and extending the lifespan of the wall and other reactor
components. Non-constant offsets between the first wall and the
plasma could be considered to optimally utilize the available
space while remaining within first wall, breeding and shielding
limits. Non-uniform offsets could also help reduce heterogeneity
of DPA across the first wall by moving parts of the first wall that
have the highest DPA outwards. The magnitude of any achievable
reduction in DPA by optimizing the offsetting of the first wall
to the plasma has not been studied within this paper, but is
investigated in similar contexts [240].
• Applying Treatments to Enhance EUROFER97 Properties: en-
hancements to the properties of EUROFER, as explored in studies
such as [276], could improve its resilience to radiation damage
and potentially increase the lifespan of the first wall without
requiring major design changes.
• Using a More Neutron-Resilient Material: exploring the use of al-
ternative materials such as Oxide Dispersion Strengthened (ODS)
steels or other Reduced Activation Ferritic/Martensitic (RAFM)
steels could offer greater resistance to neutron damage compared
to EUROFER97. However, these materials currently have a lower
technological readiness level, and their implementation would
require further research and development [277,278].
Additionally, the feasibility of using ferromagnetic steels such as EU-
ROFER – which would affect the magnetic field quality in the plasma,
and hence the confining properties – would need to be validated.
In conclusion, we have presented a preliminary conceptual study for
the blanket and neutron shield system of Stellaris. This study includes
estimates of the TBR, fast neutron fluxes at the superconducting mag-
nets, nuclear heating in the cryogenic areas, and DPAs at the first wall.
Key parameters are summarized in Table 6. It is important to emphasize
that this study employs a simplified homogeneous model for the shield
and breeder zones.
Future work should focus on advancing this preliminary model by
conducting a detailed analysis of a heterogeneous blanket configu-
ration. This will involve evaluating the neutronics, mechanical, and
Fig. 39. Physical dimensions of the first coil of the coilset, including its casing (in
mm). With casing, the coil is about 10.4 m tall, has 6.5 m of radial extent, and extends
over 4.8 m in toroidal direction.
thermal performance of such a blanket, alongside a thorough manu-
facturability assessment. A critical risk to address is the interaction
between lead-lithium and water, a well-documented exothermic reac-
tion [279]. To mitigate this, we currently rely on established designs
like the WCLL, which incorporates double-walled tubes to bolster the
reactor’s safety and reliability [280]. Additionally, further research—
including simulation and experimental studies—will be necessary to
address corrosion challenges and to understand the magnetohydrody-
namic effects in liquid lithium-lead, similar to the studies performed
in [245]. Activated corrosion products, activated lithium-lead and ac-
tivated water will also require careful shielding considerations, due
to their mobility around the building. These steps will be crucial for
refining the blanket and shield design to ensure it meets the demands
of a commercial fusion reactor.
2.9. Magnets
In Fig. 39 we display a selected coil of Stellaris with its correspond-
ing casing, including physical dimensions in millimeters. The coils have
an approximate size of 7 × 5 × 10 m, with a typical circumference of
25 m, and the conductor needs to be manufactured using superconduct-
ing material, for which multiple options exist. High-temperature su-
perconductors (HTS), particularly ReBCO-based superconductors, have
important advantages for high-field magnetic confinement fusion. Most
notably, they allow for designs with higher magnetic field strengths,
as the superconducting material can withstand much larger critical
current densities at high magnetic field strengths compared to con-
ventional low-temperature superconductors [281–283]. The technology
is also reaching maturity, with ReBCO-based coils tested at relevant
parameters—despite outstanding problems such as quench manage-
ment and high stored energy. At the time of writing, the current
record for the highest field strength achieved by a tested magnet has
45.5 T [284] of peak field on the HTS. The SPARC tokamak [19] is
currently being constructed using ReBCO-based magnets.
Despite their advantages, ReBCO-coated conductors pose several
challenges for cable design, which typically involve assembling hun-
dreds of individual HTS tapes in a specific arrangement. The major
limitations for cables, especially in fusion applications, can be at-
tributed to three key aspects. First, the mechanical stress and strain
that the conductor and the cable endure during the manufacturing
process and operation result in significant limitations. Second, the
anisotropic behavior of the ReBCO material under magnetic fields leads
to critical current density values that are much lower for magnetic
fields perpendicular to the flat face of the tape than for magnetic
fields parallel to the tape, especially for the fields and temperatures of
interest. Third, ensuring electro-thermal stability (i.e., avoiding quench
events and loss of superconducting state) is crucial during the design
process.
Several successful cabling techniques have been developed over the
past decade to address these challenges. Among these are concepts such
Fusion Engineering and Design xxx (xxxx) xxx 
21 


===== PDF PAGE 22 =====
J. Lion et al.
as CORC, VIPER, CroCo, and BRAST [83,85,281,285–287]. Addition-
ally, HTS ‘stack in groove’ approaches – as applied in the Toroidal Field
Model Coil (TFMC) built in collaboration between MIT’s Plasma Science
and Fusion Center (PSFC) and Commonwealth Fusion System (CFS) for
the SPARC project – have shown promising characteristics [288,289].
For the superconducting magnets in this study, we propose a Non-
Insulated (NI) concept. The NI method in the present work ensures
that there is electric insulation between pancakes (azimuthally insu-
lated) and only steel (electrical contact) between radial turns. More
specifically, referring to Fig. 40, electric insulation between pancakes
implies that current can only move in the 𝛷-coordinate direction
(azimuthal) through the joints/connections at the first and last turns
of each pancake (the yellow sheet represents the electric insulation).
On the other hand, radial electric contact means that current can leak
in the 𝑟-coordinate direction (radially outward), particularly during
transients. The terminology of such a concept is coherent with the
current literature (e.g. TFMC and FSU/NHMFL [282,289]).
Unlike low-temperature-superconducting (LTS) magnets, HTS mag-
nets are fundamentally unlikely to quench unless they have a serious
defect in them. Nevertheless, demonstration of quench management is
necessary for risk mitigation purposes. NI coils offer a self-protecting
mechanism without complex external systems, allowing current to
bypass local hotspots and enhance thermal stability. They are passively
protected by natural current redistribution. However, large stored mag-
netic energy and highly non-uniform critical current distributions (es-
pecially with low critical current regions) can still cause damage [288,
289]. To mitigate quench damage, it is crucial to ensure that the ratio of
operational current density to critical current density, 𝑗op∕𝑗crit, varies
only very weakly along a turn, and does not exceed a critical limit,
which we take here to be 80%.
For the conductor design discussed here, we consider a fully pre-
soldered, field-aligned Stack Tape Cable (STC), enveloped in a copper
jacket that constrains the tape stack in the chosen orientation, similar
to the CroCo concept [286]. We exploit the anisotropic properties of Re-
BCO tapes and align the ‘ab plane’ (flat face) of the ReBCO tapes/stacks
with the magnetic field orientation, generalizing and extending to the
whole winding pack an approach proposed for the helical (heliotron)
reactor with the STARS conductor [290,291]. Field alignment improves
performance, but adds design complexity requiring precise calibration
and advanced manufacturing techniques. Additionally, we utilize grad-
ing techniques (i.e., intentionally reducing the number of tapes where
the magnetic field is lower [292]) to achieve an almost constant 𝑗op∕𝑗crit
ratio along the turns.
The conductor is wound in non-planar stacked ‘radial’ plates made
of stainless steel 316 (SS316), similar to concepts in previous de-
signs [293,294]. Fig. 40 shows a cross section of the winding pack for
a 256-turn coil (coil 4) and the geometric and material details of the
single unit cell. For each coil, we select a square winding pack with a
variable number of turns, ranging from 225 to 324 turns per coil.
We note that the winding pack orientation is fully decoupled from
the HTS tape stack orientation. The winding pack orientation is chosen
so that a flat face is tangential to the plasma at each point, allowing
for a vacuum vessel surface that is as flat as possible and maximizing
available space for the radial build while minimizing peak fields within
the winding pack. Conversely, the orientation of the HTS tape stack is
chosen to align with the magnetic field orientation at each point along
the cable for each turn inside a winding pack.
Each turn is sized at 20 mm × 20 mm, with a 6 mm × 6 mm soldered
tape stack embedded in a 15 mm diameter round copper former.
With these dimensions, the current per turn is constrained to a
maximum value of 50 kA, allowing for the use of ‘off-the-shelf’ current
leads to realize the connection between the superconductor in the coils
at cryogenic temperatures to the bus bars, which are connected to
the coil power supplies, at room temperature. The coils are cooled to
20 K using supercritical helium channels at 15–20 bar. This approach
entails using the casing as the pressure vessel itself, eliminating the
Fig. 40. A perpendicular cross section through the winding pack of the coil. The casing
is not shown here, and the stacks are not aligned with the field for the sake of clarity.
Note that 𝛷represents the toroidal coordinate, 𝛩the poloidal coordinate and 𝑟the
radial coordinate.
Table 7
Material fractions in a winding pack of one of the Stellaris coils.
Material
Fraction [%]
Tape stack
9
Copper jacket
35
Solder
12
Steel
36
Helium (cooling)
8
need for leak-tight pressure seals between the plates/turns. However,
issues such as uncontrolled helium flow distribution could arise; the
cooling concept is still under exploration. Alternative designs include
closed channels with welded lids or soldered-in copper/steel pipes. In
this paper, the operating temperature (Top) is set to 20 K to provide
a consistent basis for analysis, but it may be desirable to lower the
operating temperature to around 10–15 K to provide more margin.
In the chosen unit cell configuration, the current density per turn
is about 112 A∕mm2, and the current density per copper fraction is
approximately 355 A∕mm2, aligning the winding pack design with
similar proposed designs [288,289]. The resulting material fractions of
each winding pack are summarized in Table 7. We summarize major
coil features in Table 8. Note that we report the specs for only six
coils due to symmetry (i.e., 48 coils divided into four periods, with
each period containing 12 coils: six independent and six mirrored),
simplifying the representation.
In the following paragraphs, we discuss a high-level concept of a
magnet system for the first version of the coils for the Stellaris class
of stellarators, focusing on how the above challenges are addressed.
Our focus here is on the feasibility of the concept, as opposed to a full
engineering analysis. Some important design aspects, such as screening
currents and field quality, are not covered in this short analysis. Instead,
to validate the proposed design, we discuss the maximum field on the
conductor and the operational critical current margin, the winding-
induced curvature and torsion, the structural integrity of the winding
pack, the contact resistance between turns, and peak temperatures and
currents during a quench event.
Peak fields and critical current density. The peak magnetic field in stel-
larator coils can vary significantly from one coil to the next, especially
in QI stellarators with a large magnetic mirror ratio. The peak field is
also heavily dependent on the size of the winding pack, and is a decisive
parameter for force and critical current density calculations. Here,
we compute the peak fields using a 3D magneto-static model carried
out by means of finite element analysis with the commercial software
COMSOL MultiPhysics® [295]. For this calculation, we assume that the
current density distribution is uniform across the winding pack cross-
section. Fig. 41 shows the peak fields for each independent coil. At the
chosen 9 T axis-averaged magnetic field strength, the peak field inside
Fusion Engineering and Design xxx (xxxx) xxx 
22 


===== PDF PAGE 23 =====
J. Lion et al.
Table 8
The main coil parameters for every unique coil in Stellaris. ‘WP’ stands for ‘winding
pack’. 𝑗op refers to the operational current density (in the text , 𝑗is used equivalently).
Minimal distances are with respect to the neighboring coil.
Coil Number
0
1
2
3
4
5
I (total Amp-turns) [MA]
15.4
14.6
13.8
12.9
12.5
11.2
Number of turns
324
324
289
289
256
225
Turn current [kA]
47.6
44.9
47.8
44.7
48.9
49.8
𝑗WP [A∕mm2]
119
112
120
112
122
124
𝑗tape-stack [A∕mm2]
1323
1249
1330
1243
1360
1384
Cross section side length [mm]
360
360
340
340
320
300
Min. casing-to-casing dist. [mm]
11.4
114
91.4
135
326
475
Min. casing-to-LCFS dist. [m]
1.06
1.04
1.05
1.08
1.11
1.07
Coil mass, no casing [ton]
24.2
25.4
21.6
21.5
19.0
17.0
Peak field [T]
24.6
23.1
22.0
21.0
21.4
19.5
Max. curvature [m−1]
1.97
1.75
1.94
1.42
2.12
1.86
Min. curvature radius [m]
0.51
0.57
0.52
0.60
0.47
0.54
Max. torsion [rad/m]
5.27
3.76
4.46
3.76
3.99
3.91
Max. 𝑗op∕𝑗crit no grading [%]
60.5
46.5
50.2
54.1
56.3
55.8
Max. 𝑗op∕𝑗crit with grading [%]
80
80
80
80
80
80
Tape length no grading [km]
807
847
721
717
636
567
Tape length with grading [km]
167
161
146
134
131
118
Max. turn linear force [kN/m]
540
404
398
400
450
380
Max. WP linear force [MN/m]
174
131
115
115
115
85
Peak stress on WP [MPa]
<650
Self-inductance [H]
1.30
1.44
1.10
1.10
0.90
0.62
Total energy [GJ]
110.58 (2.76 GJ per coil)
Turn-to-turn contact res. [μΩ]
11.2
11.2
10
10
8.85
8.85
Charging time [h]
≃600 (26 days)
Max. temp. during quench [K]
<300
Fig. 41. Results of a 3D magnetostatic finite-element simulation in one half-module,
taking into account the field generated by Stellaris. Pictured is the magnetic field
strength at the surface of the winding pack. The size for each winding pack is consistent
with values reported in Table 8. The labels indicate the maximum value of the field
for each coil and the colormap indicates the norm of magnetic field in Tesla (T).
the winding pack reaches 24.59 T.
We now evaluate the effect of the high magnetic field strength
in terms of the critical current of the HTS tape stack cable. ReBCO-
based HTS tapes have a strong dependence of the critical current on
the magnitude of the field component orthogonal to the direction of
the current and the angle between the field and the so-called ̂𝑐-axis
of the ReBCO crystal, which is usually (but not always) orthogonal to
the flat side of the tape. We model this effect by using the magneto-
angular parametrization of the critical current density as a function
of the field strength and the angle between the field and the 𝑐-axis
suggested in [296]. We fit this model to a dataset of measurements
of the critical current of a commercial ReBCO 2G HTS wire collected
at 20 K and different field strengths and angles with respect to the
tape [297]. The critical current values presented here are calculated at
20 K, since we assume that the temperature is uniform in the winding
pack and that there are no transients. Later, a temperature dependency
Fig. 42. (a): Critical current density parametrization as a function of the field strength
and angle between the field and the plane, at 20K, for a commercial ReBCO 2G HTS
tape. Here the magnetic field always refers to the component on the plane orthogonal
to the current direction. (b): Ratio of operational current density over critical current
density along coil 0. A representative turn is shown in orange, while the distribution
across turns is illustrated by the maximum and minimum values (dashed blue), the
median (solid blue), and the interval between the 16 % and the 84 % quantiles (shaded
region).
Fig. 43. A cross section of coil 5, displaying all turns as thin layers to emphasize
the field-aligned orientation of each turn. The turns are colored according to the ratio
𝑗op∕𝑗crit, before applying any grading.
will be considered for the quench modeling. The left plot of Fig. 42
shows the model we use for 𝑗crit as a result of our fit.
We exploit the high anisotropy of 𝑗crit with respect to the inclination
angle to maintain a high critical current despite the large field values
inside the coil winding pack by orienting the tapes within the winding
pack optimally. To obtain the actual orientation of the tapes, we employ
a simple optimization algorithm to balance the required level of field
alignment while minimizing torsion in the tapes. Fig. 43 shows a cross
section of the winding pack of coil 5, illustrating the chosen orientation.
Each turn is represented simplistically as a flat cable to highlight the
orientation of the tape stack.
With this orientation, we calculate 𝑗crit along the coils. To do so, we
compute the magnetic field using a Biot–Savart integration over a finite
coil with a square cross-section and uniform current density [12,298].
Illustrative results of the critical current density calculations are
shown in the right-hand-side plot of Fig. 42, which displays the ratio
of the operational current density to the critical current density for the
turns present in coil 0, the coil experiencing the highest magnetic field
strengths. The horizontal orange line indicates the 𝑗op∕𝑗crit ratio along a
representative turn inside the coil. To illustrate the distribution across
turns, we display the maximum and minimum values, as well as the
median and the interval between the 16% and 84% quantiles for each
cross section along the winding pack central filament path.
The safety margin of 80% is not exceeded at any point, and a
grading technique can be employed to tune the critical current density
so that a relatively constant 𝑗op∕𝑗crit is achieved. This grading could
Fusion Engineering and Design xxx (xxxx) xxx 
23 


===== PDF PAGE 31 =====
J. Lion et al.
all usually considered ECRH schemes and can heat effectively at the
target densities and temperatures.
We simulate the neutron-induced deterioration to reach a peak of
11 DPA per full power year in dedicated regions of the first wall using
the ARC-DPA model [265]. Average values are simulated to stay within
6 DPA per full power year at the first wall.
Overall, based on the fidelity of the analysis conducted in this paper,
we find the suggested concept to be feasible under all investigated
aspects.
3.2. Further improvements and ongoing research
The Stellaris reactor concept presented here is only the first version
of a QI stellarator reactor design fully leveraging HTS magnets. The
analysis in this paper is meant to demonstrate physics and engineering
feasibility to a sufficient extent to motivate further efforts on the QI-
HTS stellarator concept. The following is a non-comprehensive list of
further studies that would elevate the presented concept:
• in-depth studies of economic viability;
• use of a lower aspect ratio stellarator configuration to optimize
economic viability;
• conceptualization of plasma diagnostics solutions aligned with
reactor requirements;
• high-fidelity prediction of kinetic profiles and plasma perfor-
mance evaluations, including electromagnetic effects and impu-
rities;
• investigations of H-mode access in stellarator reactor candidates;
• simulations of flux surface degradation at finite beta, as recently
simulated in [118];
• simulations of effects of ECRH heating in X1 mode, particu-
larly examining the impact of heating superthermal and trapped
particles as in the current concept;
• density control using cryogenic pellets, including deposition pro-
files and effects on the device performance;
• full neutronics and structural calculations of a blanket design
that is not fully homogenized and includes open ports, including
thermal stress analysis and estimation of pumping requirements;
• examination of the maintenance concept, including estimates for
the duration of maintenance operations, structural stability sim-
ulations during sector extraction, and studies on activation and
nuclear containment;
• higher fidelity simulation of fast particle physics, especially in-
cluding collisional losses and wave-particle scattering between
fast particles and Alfvén waves;
• optimization of a Stellaris device to maximize coil tolerances,
assessing trade-offs with plasma performance;
• divertor design, to include heat load calculations in attached and
detached conditions, active control schemes (including stable de-
tachment steady-state detachment conditions), particle recycling,
neutral gas compression, and pumping;
• further tritium blanket analyses, including simulating MHD ef-
fects in the PbLi, estimations of corrosion, simulation of tritium
transport and a respective TBR target, water activation and safety
relevant analyses;
• analysis of ferromagnetic effects of non-magnetic steel, such as
EUROFER, and the liquid PbLi blanket on the magnetic field
quality;
• high fidelity quench modeling in a detailed HTS coil design in 3D,
as opposed to the simplified analysis presented in this study for
an initial feasibility assessment.
We note that several of these topics are already under examination
by the authors, especially those related to quench modeling and neu-
tronics. Economic aspects – including parasitic electricity consumption
and availability – are outside the scope of this paper, but are paramount
to assessing the feasibility of a commercial power plant. It is also worth
noting that stellarators with lower aspect ratios would potentially
require smaller capital costs, though at the expense of overall fusion
power. Appendix C shows an example of a stellarator configuration
with comparable physics performance to Stellaris, but at a lower aspect
ratio.
Multiple models should be developed and compared for all of the
above topics, and collaborative efforts between public and private
research institutions are recommended to accelerate progress.
3.3. Conclusion
Stellaris is a first-of-a-kind concept for a high-field, QI stellarator
fusion power plant. It combines significant physics performance im-
provements, an integrated and self-consistent engineering feasibility
study, and novel concepts for key subsystems and operations. Due to
the QI symmetry of the magnetic field, Stellaris is designed to operate
as an intrinsically steady-state device without disruptions. While the
basic concept of a modular QI stellarator operating in steady-state
has already been demonstrated by the W7-X experiment [51], it has
only recently become possible to optimize QI stellarator plasma and
coil shapes to target reactor viability [71]. The latter requires not
only excellent confinement of fusion-born fast particles, but also the
feasibility of reactor-relevant magnets and engineering systems.
New stellarator configurations presented in the literature often per-
form well in one metric but poorly in others. For example, a con-
figuration optimized for good fast particle confinement may not be
ideally-MHD stable, or an MHD stable configuration with good fast
particle confinement may not be feasible with realistic coils. Until
now, no single consistent stellarator reactor study has been presented
that fulfills all relevant performance aspects of stellarator configuration
simultaneously, including an engineering feasibility analysis that builds
credibility for a reactor candidate. This paper aims to address this
gap, suggesting a new stellarator concept alongside a broad range of
analyses targeted at indicating viability for a power plant prototype.
As part of the Stellaris concept, several novel engineering design so-
lutions are suggested and corresponding analyses have been performed.
Of particular relevance are the suggested concepts for high-field HTS
magnets, the support structure, and a high power density first wall
and blanket system handling tritium breeding and neutron shield-
ing. Additionally, a remote maintenance solution is conceptualized
that overcomes the limitations of port-based scheduled maintenance
in stellarators—a major challenge on the path to commercial energy
production.
The main value of this paper is in showcasing a baseline QI stel-
larator design for prototypical power plant applications. The authors
hope and anticipate that Stellaris will serve as a foundation for fur-
ther research and development on burning plasma physics, as well as
engineering solutions for economically viable fusion power plants.
Given increasing demand for clean energy and heightened invest-
ment in fusion technology – including HTS magnets and neutron-
resilient materials – QI stellarators are now positioned to play a promi-
nent role in the global race to commercial fusion.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
J. Lion: Writing – original draft, Visualization, Supervision, Soft-
ware, Methodology, Investigation, Conceptualization. J.-C. Anglès:
Writing – original draft, Software, Methodology, Conceptualization.
L. Bonauer: Software. A. Bañón Navarro: Software, Methodology.
S.A. Cadena Ceron: Software. R. Davies: Software, Methodology.
M. Drevlak: Software, Methodology. N. Foppiani: Writing – original
draft, Visualization, Software, Methodology. J. Geiger: Methodology.
A. Goodman: Methodology. W. Guo: Visualization, Methodology. E.
Fusion Engineering and Design xxx (xxxx) xxx 
31 


===== PDF PAGE 32 =====
J. Lion et al.
Guiraud: Software. F. Hernández: Writing – review & editing, Super-
vision. S. Henneberg: Supervision, Methodology. R. Herrero: Writing
– original draft, Visualization, Software, Methodology. C. Hintze:
Methodology. H. Höchter: Software. J. Jelonnek: Writing – review
& editing, Investigation. F. Jenko: Writing – review & editing, Su-
pervision. R. Jorge: Supervision, Methodology. M. Kaiser: Software.
M. Kubie: Writing – review & editing, Supervision, Software, Method-
ology, Conceptualization. E. Lascas Neto: Software, Methodology.
H. Laqua: Writing – review & editing, Supervision. M. Leoni: Writ-
ing – original draft, Software, Methodology. J.F. Lobsien: Software,
Methodology. V. Maurin: Writing – original draft, Software, Method-
ology. A. Merlo: Writing – original draft, Visualization, Software,
Methodology, Investigation. D. Middleton-Gear: Writing – original
draft, Visualization, Methodology, Investigation. M. Pascu: Software.
G.G. Plunk: Writing – review & editing, Supervision, Methodology. N.
Riva: Writing – original draft, Visualization, Software, Methodology,
Investigation. M. Savtchouk: Software. F. Sciortino: Writing – review
& editing, Methodology. J. Schilling: Writing – review & editing,
Visualization, Methodology. J. Shimwell: Writing – review & editing,
Validation, Investigation. A. Di Siena: Supervision, Methodology. R.
Slade: Writing – review & editing, Methodology, Conceptualization. T.
Stange: Writing – review & editing, Methodology. T.N. Todd: Writing –
review & editing, Supervision, Conceptualization. L. Wegener: Writing
– review & editing, Conceptualization. F. Wilms: Software, Methodol-
ogy. P. Xanthopoulos: Supervision, Investigation. M. Zheng: Software,
Investigation.
Declaration of competing interest
The authors declare the following financial interests/personal rela-
tionships which may be considered as potential competing interests:
Eduardo Lascas Neto reports financial support was provided by Proxima
Fusion GmbH. All Proxima Fusion Co-Authors reports a relationship
with Proxima Fusion GmbH that includes: employment and equity or
stocks. Martin Kubie, Wei Guo has patent #US63/665,597 pending to
Proxima Fusion GmbH. Victor Maurin, Jean-Claude Angles has patent
#EP24197718 pending to Proxima Fusion GmbH. Tom Todd, Martin
Kubie, David Middleton-Gear, Wei Guo has patent #US63/688,883
pending to Proxima Fusion GmbH. Jorrit Lion, Rodrigo Herrero has
patent #EP24197765 pending to Proxima Fusion GmbH. If there are
other authors, they declare that they have no known competing fi-
nancial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to
influence the work reported in this paper.
Acknowledgments
The authors would like to thank Alan Rochford, Fabrice Moncade,
Bernhard Auchmann, Chuanren Wu, Felix Schauer, and Nikola Jaksic
for their contributions and advice along the way.
We are grateful to Felix Warmer, Cesar Luongo, Craig Beidler, Per
Helander, Hartmut Zohm, and Christian Bachmann, for feedback on the
draft and their key role in driving the field forward over many years.
We are also thankful to Yasuhiro Suzuki for access and support with
the HINT-3D code.
We thank all open source developers whose software have en-
abled this work, particularly the following developer communities:
simsopt, OpenMC, Gmsh, FEniCS-X, Open-CASCADE.
The work presented here was independently funded by Proxima
Fusion. Some optimizations and simulations were performed at the Max
Planck Computing and Data Facility (Germany). Part of the work was
funded by the European Union (EU) via the Euratom Research and
Training Programme (Grant Agreement No. 101052200—EUROfusion).
A. Goodman is supported by a grant from the Simons Foundation,
United States (Grant No. 560651).
Appendix A. Confinement time scaling
For the physics design point exploration performed in Section 2.3,
we restrict ourselves to a simple ‘0.5D’ power balance, where the
power balance is enforced only globally, after integration of both sides
of the power balance equation. We introduce the terminology 𝑝≡
⟨𝑝⟩𝑉≡∫𝑉𝑝𝑑 𝑉, where 𝑉is the plasma volume. Then, the integrated
steady-state power balance can be written as
𝑝loss
!= 𝑝heat,
(A.1)
⇒𝑝rad + 𝑝conf = 𝑓𝛼𝑝𝛼+ 𝑝aux.
(A.2)
In these equations, 𝑝loss is the (volume averaged) loss power density,
𝑝heat the heating power density, 𝑝rad the loss power density by radia-
tion, 𝑝conf the loss power density due to finite confinement, 𝑝aux is the
auxiliary power density and 𝑝𝛼is the heating power density by fusion
alpha particles. 𝑓𝛼is the fraction of the total alpha power absorbed in
the plasma. When writing the volume averaged confinement loss power
density 𝑝conf in terms of the plasma energy density 𝑤and the energy
confinement time 𝜏𝐸, we arrive at
𝑝rad + 𝑤
𝜏𝐸
= 𝑓𝛼𝐸𝛼𝑛𝐷𝑛𝑇⟨𝜎 𝑣⟩𝑇+ 𝑝aux.
(A.3)
Here, 𝑝aux is the auxiliary heating power density. 𝐸𝛼is the energy
carried by fast fusion alpha particles (3.5 MeV), 𝑛𝐷and 𝑛𝑇are densities
of deuterium and tritium in the plasma respectively. ⟨𝜎 𝑣⟩𝑇is the
Maxwellian averaged fusion reactivity.
The radiation term 𝑝rad we split in line and continuum radiation,
where we use a priori assumed impurity fractions and calculate the
cooling factors using the ‘Aurora’ code [138], relying on the Atomic
Data and Analysis Structure (ADAS) database [139]. For synchrotron
radiation, we take the model suggested in Ref. [140],
𝑝sy nc
[W∕m−3] = 1.32 ⋅10−7 (𝐵 𝑇𝑒
)2.5
√𝑛𝑒
𝑎
(
1.0 + 18.0 𝑎
𝑅
√
𝑇𝑒
)
.
(A.4)
Here 𝑎, 𝑅are given in m, 𝑇𝑒in k eV, 𝐵in T and 𝑛𝑒in 1020 m−3.
To resolve the helium fraction 𝑓He, one introduces the alpha particle
balance equation,
𝑛He
𝜏⋆
𝛼
= 𝑛𝐷𝑛𝑇⟨𝜎 𝑣⟩𝑇,
(A.5)
and then usually 𝜏⋆
𝛼
is assumed to be proportional to the energy
confinement time: 𝜏⋆
𝛼= 𝜌⋆𝜏𝐸, where we use 𝜌⋆∼ 8, where 𝜌⋆shall
not be confused with the normalized minor plasma radius. Determining
reasonable values for 𝜌⋆, and validity of that model in general, is a
subject of active research [161,347]. In this article we introduce a new
heuristic value 𝑓suppr which is used to suppress the resulting helium
density by a constant factor,
𝑛′
He = 𝑓suppr𝑛He.
(A.6)
This assumption is informed by two considerations: first, by suppression
of helium ash due to a positive ambipolar radial electric field, and
second, by the effect that fast particles do not slow down directly in
the core, but are radially displaced due to their finite drift orbit. This
effect was quantified in [110] by employing Monte-Carlo slowing down
simulations in various stellarators. We capture it here heuristically by
choosing a value of 𝑓suppr = 1
2.
To extrapolate to a reactor, one can use the ISS04 inter-machine
scaling, which reads [141]
𝜏𝐸= 0.134 𝑓ren𝑎2.28𝐵0.84𝜄0.41
2∕3 𝑛0.54
19 𝑅0.64𝑃−0.61.
(A.7)
where 𝑓ren is a multiplier for the ISS04 scaling and the other variables
have their usual meanings. Rewriting the heating power 𝑃in terms of
temperature 𝑇, 𝑃= 𝑊∕𝜏𝐸, where 𝑊is the stored plasma energy, one
arrives at
𝜏𝐸= 0.152 𝑓2.56
ren 𝑎2.72𝐵2.15𝜄1.05
2∕3 𝑛−0.18
19
𝑅0.08𝑇−1.56
keV ,
(A.8)
Fusion Engineering and Design xxx (xxxx) xxx 
32 


===== PDF PAGE 33 =====
J. Lion et al.
which closely resembles the so called ‘Gyro-Bohm scaling’, which scales
as 𝜏𝐺 𝐵∼
𝐿
𝜌2𝑣𝑡ℎ∼𝑎3𝐵2
𝑇3∕2 . A similar approach was also shown in [348].
Note that this scaling can also be derived from invariance principles
of the Maxwell–Vlasov equations [349]. A more careful considera-
tion might retrieve other factors such as sensitivity in aspect ratio
and iota [350], 𝜏∼𝜏𝐺 𝐵𝑓(𝐴, 𝜄), but this was not yet retrieved from
simulations or data.
Appendix B. First wall simulations
What follows is a brief outline of the method employed to calculate
the first wall temperature in Section 2.7.
We estimated the temperature by numerically solving a heat equa-
tion with the Finite Element Method (FEM). We solved a steady-state
heat equation with two different values for the thermal conductivity 𝑘,
one for the EUROFER97 steel and one for the tungsten (W):
𝑘Eurofer(𝑇) = 1.103 × 10−7𝑇3 − 8.4884 × 10−5𝑇2
+ 1.0197 × 10−2𝑇+ 31.776 ,
(B.1)
𝑘𝑊= 108.34 − 1.052 × 10−2(𝑇+ 273.15) +
23 419.9
𝑇+ 273.15 ,
(B.2)
where the temperature is expressed in Celsius.
The expression for the EUROFER97 conductivity comes from a
fit of the experimental data in [251]. The expression for tungsten is
from [351]. Both values for 𝑘Eurofer and 𝑘W are expressed in [W m−1 K−1].
The governing equations include a volumetric source term rep-
resenting the neutron load (obtained from the neutronics analysis)
and boundary conditions modeling heat input and output: a Neumann
boundary condition on the plasma-facing surface prescribing a heat
flux equal to the previously computed radiation load (combining edge
radiation and core radiation), a homogeneous Neumann boundary
condition at the blanket-facing surface, and a Robin boundary condition
at the pipes where the heat flux is −ℎ(𝑇−𝑇𝑐), where 𝑇is the unknown
temperature, 𝑇𝑐is the temperature of the coolant, and ℎis the heat
transfer coefficient. As detailed in the main text, we considered only
a limited portion of the wall: at its sides, we applied a homogeneous
Neumann boundary condition. The entire problem then reads
⎧
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎨
⎪
⎪
⎪⎩
−∇⋅(𝑘(𝑇) ∇𝑇) = 𝑓𝑛𝑙
in 𝛺
𝑘(𝑇) 𝜕𝑛𝑇= 𝑤𝑟𝑙
on 𝛤pfs
𝑘(𝑇) 𝜕𝑛𝑇= 0
on 𝛤outer
𝑘(𝑇) 𝜕𝑛𝑇= 0
on 𝛤sides
𝑘(𝑇) 𝜕𝑛𝑇= −ℎ(𝑇) (𝑇−𝑇𝑐(⃗𝑥))
on 𝛤pipes
(B.3)
where 𝑘is a piecewise constant function that evaluates to 𝑘Eurofer and
𝑘𝑊(Eqs. (B.1) and (B.2)) on the respective subdomains, 𝛺is the
computational domain, 𝛤pfs is the plasma-facing part of the boundary,
𝛤outer is the blanket-facing part of the boundary, 𝛤sides are the lateral
walls of the wall sector that we are simulating and 𝛤pipes is the part of
the boundary between the EUROFER97 and the pipes. The value of the
heat transfer coefficient can be computed from experimental data. We
used the Dittus–Bölter equation, according to which the heat transfer
coefficient for Helium is given by [352]
ℎ= 0.023 𝑘
𝑑
(
𝑗𝑑
𝜇
)0.8 (
𝜇
𝑐𝑝
𝑘
)0.4
.
(B.4)
The quantities in Eq. (B.4) refer to the coolant: in our case, Helium.
The values and meaning of all relevant thermo-physical properties of
Helium and the cooling system are given in Table B.9.
The values listed here are for a temperature of 350 ◦C at a pressure
of 8 MPa, but in the code we implemented temperature-dependence for
the thermal conductivity and the dynamic viscosity as
𝜇(𝑇) = −7.2571 × 10−12 𝑇2 + 4.2094 × 10−8 𝑇+ 1.9366 × 10−5,
(B.5)
𝑘(𝑇) = −6.1429 × 10−8 𝑇2 + 3.3172 × 10−4 𝑇+ 0.15473,
(B.6)
Table B.9
Thermo-physical properties of Helium at 350 ◦C and cooling
system hydraulic parameters.
Variable
Value
Thermal conductivity, 𝑘
0.2633 W m−1 K−1
Hydraulic diameter, 𝑑
12 mm
Mass flow, 𝑚
0.075 k g∕s
Mass flux, 𝑗
𝑗=
𝑚
𝑑2
Dynamic viscosity, 𝜇
3.33 × 10−5 Pa s
Specific heat, 𝑐𝑝
5188.7 J k g−1 K−1
where the expressions are fits from experimental data from the NIST
database [353].
In the Robin boundary condition, the temperature of the coolant
cannot be taken as a constant, as this would violate energy conservation
in that the energy flowing out of the wall and into the pipes must
increase the temperature of the coolant in the pipes. To find the
temperature of the coolant along the pipe, we implemented a fixed-
point iteration in our solution strategy, in which we first solved for the
heat in the first wall with an initial guess of what the final temperature
will be at the pipes’ outlet and then computed the actual heat 𝑄that
flows into each pipe with the calculated solution. We used this value
to update the outlet temperature according to the equation
𝑄= 𝑚 𝑐𝑝(𝑇out −𝑇in)
(B.7)
where 𝑇in and 𝑇out are a pipe’s inlet and outlet temperature. We note
that this update must be done for each pipe independently, for the
reasons outlined above.
We then iterated the solver and continued until the temperature in
the whole domain after two successive solutions had a relative change
in the 𝐿2 norm, which is less than a given tolerance (in our case, 10−5).
Having the inlet and outlet temperatures of a pipe does not tell us
how the temperature varies along that pipe. Computing this value as a
function of the temperature along the pipe is a complex operation, so
we instead assumed that the temperature varies linearly along the pipe
for simplicity.
For the purpose of this analysis, we developed C++ code based on
OpenCASCADE for the CAD design. We used gmsh [354] for meshing,
and performed a Finite Element Analysis using C++ code based on
FEniCS-X [355–358]. Since the geometry is not particularly complex,
in all our simulations we used a rather coarse tetrahedral mesh with
high-order (3) continuous polynomial elements. Our design for the first
wall, like most designs, comprises tiles which are physically separate,
meaning we can avoid simulating a full wall in favor of just one column
at a time, which is more convenient computationally.
Appendix C. Toward smaller aspect ratios
We encourage the reader to interpret the results in this publication
as a high-level ‘version 1’ of what a QI stellarator fusion power plant
may look like. Although economic viability was not a central consid-
eration of the presented concept, at the time of writing it is already
evident that more commercially attractive Stellaris designs are possible.
Rapid iteration of such concepts is possible due to new computational
tools that were partly developed for the present effort, and partly made
available by international public research over the recent years.
This paper has described a QI configuration with an aspect ratio
A ≃ 10, corresponding to a major radius of R0 ≃ 12.5 m. The major
radius could be further reduced if an equivalently- or better-performing
configuration at lower aspect ratio could be found. For example, a
configuration with aspect ratio 6 and the same minor radius (upon
which plasma confinement most directly depends) would result in
a major plasma radius of R0
≃ 7.8 m. On the other hand, such a
device would only 3∕5 of the fusion power as the Stellaris concept
demonstrated here.
Fusion Engineering and Design xxx (xxxx) xxx 
33 


===== PDF PAGE 34 =====
J. Lion et al.
Fig. C.55. Comparison between alternative configurations with reduced aspect ratios
from the SQuID family of QI configurations. The reference configuration used through-
out the paper is labeled as ‘SQuID’. The properties shown here match those presented in
Fig. 4, thus indicating normalized quantities where the outermost value is normalized
by the best performing configuration and innermost value refers to the worst performing
configuration. Here also an ITG-turbulence proxy is shown, following Ref. [71], a proxy
used that is expected to correlate with mitigation of ITG turbulence. For this, we
compute a flux-surface averaged value of the flux compression |𝛁𝑟| in regions of ‘bad’
curvature (identified by the drift curvature [78,359], 𝐾𝑑= 𝐁× 𝜿⋅𝛁𝛼). The value at
𝑠= 0.5 (the approximate location of the strongest temperature gradient) is reported.
The spider plot dimensions have been normalized to reflect the best and worst values
observed across all shown configurations. This plot focuses on fixed boundary metrics.
To validate the existence of equivalent lower aspect ratio stellarator
configurations, in Fig. C.55 we compare the SQuID-configuration used
in this paper with alternative plasma configurations at aspect ratios
of approximately 9 and 8. These alternative configurations share key
features: minimal Shafranov shift, excellent fast particle confinement,
reduced bootstrap current, low radial neoclassical transport, and the
maximum-𝐽property. Additionally, they are ideal-MHD stable, and
allow for sufficiently distant coils.
These stellarator configurations have recently been obtained and
verified for engineering feasibility, though not to the same depth
and extent as the configuration discussed in this report. Neoclassical
transport is found to be slightly higher in the low aspect ratio config-
urations, though still much lower than in W7-X and well within the
bounds considered necessary for a reactor. Ongoing work on physics,
engineering, and economic optimization for these new configurations –
and others that are certain to emerge in the near future – promises to
further accelerate progress.
Appendix D. Mercier criterion
Within this article, to evaluate ideal MHD stability, we adopt the
definition of the Mercier criterion used in the VMEC code:
𝐷Merc = 𝐷𝑆+ 𝐷𝑊+ 𝐷𝐼+ 𝐷𝐺,
𝐷𝑆= (𝜓′′𝜒′)2
4
𝑠
𝜄2𝜋2 ,
𝐷𝑊=
𝑠
𝜄2𝜋2 ∬
|||
√
𝑔||| 𝑑 𝜃 𝑑 𝜁𝐵2
𝑔𝑠𝑠
𝑑 𝑝
𝑑 𝑠
(
𝑉′′
−𝑑 𝑝
𝑑 𝑠∬
𝑔 𝑑 𝜃 𝑑 𝜁
𝐵2
)
,
𝐷𝐼=
𝑠
𝜄2𝜋2
[
∬
|||
√
𝑔||| 𝑑 𝜃 𝑑 𝜁𝐵2
𝑔𝑠𝑠𝜓′′𝐼′ − (𝜓′′𝜒′)
(D.1)
∬
|||
√𝑔||| ( ⃗𝐽⋅⃗𝐵) 𝑑 𝜃 𝑑 𝜁
𝑔𝑠𝑠
]
,
𝐷𝐺=
𝑠
𝜄2𝜋2
[
∬
|||
√
𝑔||| 𝑑 𝜃 𝑑 𝜁
( ⃗𝐽⋅⃗𝐵
𝑔𝑠𝑠
)2
−
𝑠
𝜄2𝜋2
⎛
⎜
⎜⎝∬
|||
√𝑔||| 𝑑 𝜃 𝑑 𝜁( ⃗𝐽⋅⃗𝐵)2
𝑔𝑠𝑠𝐵2
⎞
⎟
⎟⎠
⎛
⎜
⎜⎝∬
|||
√𝑔||| 𝑑 𝜃 𝑑 𝜁 𝐵2
𝑔𝑠𝑠
⎞
⎟
⎟⎠
]
,
where 𝜓is the toroidal flux, 𝜒is the poloidal flux, 𝑠is the normalized
toroidal flux, 𝜄is the rotational transform, 𝑔𝑠𝑠= |∇𝑠⋅∇𝑠|, 𝑉is the
plasma volume, and |||
√𝑔||| = (∇𝜓⋅∇𝜃× ∇𝜙)−1.
Data availability
Data will be made available on request.
References
[1] J.-Y. Lee, J. Marotzke, G. Bala, L. Cao, S. Corti, J. Dunne, F. Engelbrecht, E.
Fischer, J. Fyfe, C. Jones, A. Maycock, J. Mutemi, O. Ndiaye, S. Panickal, T.
Zhou, Future global climate: Scenario-based projections and near-term informa-
tion, in: V. Masson-Delmotte, P. Zhai, A. Pirani, S. Connors, C. Péan, S. Berger,
N. Caud, Y. Chen, L. Goldfarb, M. Gomis, M. Huang, K. Leitzell, E. Lonnoy, J.
Matthews, T. Maycock, T. Waterfield, O. Yelek¸ci, R. Yu, B. Zhou (Eds.), Climate
Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis. Contribution of Working Group I To
the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change,
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, United Kingdom and New York, NY,
USA, 2021, pp. 553–672, http://dx.doi.org/10.1017/9781009157896.006.
[2] I.C. Change, et al., Mitigation of climate change, in: Contribution of Working
Group III to the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change, vol. 1454, 2014, p. 147.
[3] A. de Vries, The growing energy footprint of artificial intelligence, Joule 7 (10)
(2023) 2191–2194, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.joule.2023.09.004.
[4] G.P. Thiel, A.K. Stark, To decarbonize industry, we must decarbonize heat,
Joule 5 (3) (2021) 531–550, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.joule.2020.12.007.
[5] M. Wappler, D. Unguder, X. Lu, H. Ohlmeyer, H. Teschke, W. Lueke, Building
the green hydrogen market–Current state and outlook on green hydrogen
demand and electrolyzer manufacturing, Int. J. Hydrog. Energy 47 (79) (2022)
33551–33570, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2022.07.253.
[6] N. Salmon, R. Bañares-Alcántara, Green ammonia as a spatial energy vector: a
review, Sustain. Energy Fuels 5 (11) (2021) 2814–2839, http://dx.doi.org/10.
1039/d1se00345c.
[7] N. Ghaffour, T.M. Missimer, G.L. Amy, Technical review and evaluation of the
economics of water desalination: Current and future challenges for better water
supply sustainability, Desalination 309 (2013) 197–207, http://dx.doi.org/10.
1016/j.desal.2012.10.015.
[8] R. Hanna, A. Abdulla, Y. Xu, D.G. Victor, Emergency deployment of direct air
capture as a response to the climate crisis, Nat. Commun. 12 (1) (2021) 368,
http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/s41467-020-20437-0.
[9] C. Bustreo, U. Giuliani, D. Maggio, G. Zollino, How fusion power can contribute
to a fully decarbonized European power mix after 2050, Fusion Eng. Des. 146
(2019) 2189–2193, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.fusengdes.2019.03.150.
[10] B. Sorbom, J. Ball, T. Palmer, F. Mangiarotti, J. Sierchio, P. Bonoli, C. Kasten,
D. Sutherland, H. Barnard, C. Haakonsen, J. Goh, C. Sung, D. Whyte, ARC: A
compact, high-field, fusion nuclear science facility and demonstration power
plant with demountable magnets, Fusion Eng. Des. 100 (2015) 378–405, http:
//dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.fusengdes.2015.07.008.
[11] F. Warmer, S. Torrisi, C.D. Beidler, A. Dinklage, K. Egorov, Y. Feng, J. Geiger,
H. Lux, F. Schauer, Y. Turkin, R. Wolf, P. Xanthopoulos, Systems code analysis
of HELIAS-type fusion reactor and economic comparison to tokamaks, IEEE
Trans. Plasma Sci. 44 (2016) 1576–1585, http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TPS.2016.
2545868.
[12] J. Lion, F. Warmer, H. Wang, C. Beidler, S. Muldrew, R. Wolf, A general
stellarator version of the systems code PROCESS, Nucl. Fusion 61 (12) (2021)
126021, http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/1741-4326/ac2dbf.
[13] D. Maisonnier, I. Cook, S. Pierre, B. Lorenzo, G. Luciano, N. Prachai, P. Aldo,
P. Team, et al., DEMO and fusion power plant conceptual studies in Europe,
Fusion Eng. Des. 81 (8–14) (2006) 1123–1130, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.
fusengdes.2005.08.055.
Fusion Engineering and Design xxx (xxxx) xxx 
34 
