J. Lion et al.
Table 6
Key neutronics values as obtained from a 3D OpenMC calculation. FPY are full power
years. ‘Power Multiplication’ is sometimes also called ‘Energy Multiplication’ in the
literature.
Description
Value
TBR
1.074
Power Multiplication
1.20
Fast neutron flux (99th quantile) at coils [1∕m2s]
9.5 × 1013
Coil lifetime (99th quantile) [FPY]
∼10
Peak fast neutron flux at coils [1∕m2s]
2.0 × 1014
Peak DPA in the first wall [DPA∕FPY]
10.7
Estimated first wall structure lifetime [FPY]
∼4–6
Peak nuclear heating (blanket) [MW∕m3]
35
Mean cryogenic nuclear heating (winding pack) [W∕m3]
35.5
the safety margin relative to the yield strength limit might be exceeded.
Going forward, several strategies could be employed to manage
elevated neutron irradiation levels, including:
• Targeted Replacement of High-DPA Sections: replacing only the
first wall sections experiencing the highest Displacements-Per-
Atom (DPA) levels could be an efficient strategy. These targeted
replacements would not only extend the overall reactor lifespan,
but also provide valuable samples for material characterization
under high DPA conditions, contributing to better understanding
and prediction of material behavior. Analysis of first wall replace-
ment has not been performed, but it may be necessary to limit the
amount of first wall replacements so that such replacements can
be carried out during scheduled maintenance periods.
• Increasing Radial Distance Between Plasma and First Wall: by
increasing the distance between the plasma and the first wall,
the neutron flux density at the wall can be reduced, lowering the
DPA rate and extending the lifespan of the wall and other reactor
components. Non-constant offsets between the first wall and the
plasma could be considered to optimally utilize the available
space while remaining within first wall, breeding and shielding
limits. Non-uniform offsets could also help reduce heterogeneity
of DPA across the first wall by moving parts of the first wall that
have the highest DPA outwards. The magnitude of any achievable
reduction in DPA by optimizing the offsetting of the first wall
to the plasma has not been studied within this paper, but is
investigated in similar contexts [240].
• Applying Treatments to Enhance EUROFER97 Properties: en-
hancements to the properties of EUROFER, as explored in studies
such as [276], could improve its resilience to radiation damage
and potentially increase the lifespan of the first wall without
requiring major design changes.
• Using a More Neutron-Resilient Material: exploring the use of al-
ternative materials such as Oxide Dispersion Strengthened (ODS)
steels or other Reduced Activation Ferritic/Martensitic (RAFM)
steels could offer greater resistance to neutron damage compared
to EUROFER97. However, these materials currently have a lower
technological readiness level, and their implementation would
require further research and development [277,278].
Additionally, the feasibility of using ferromagnetic steels such as EU-
ROFER – which would affect the magnetic field quality in the plasma,
and hence the confining properties – would need to be validated.
In conclusion, we have presented a preliminary conceptual study for
the blanket and neutron shield system of Stellaris. This study includes
estimates of the TBR, fast neutron fluxes at the superconducting mag-
nets, nuclear heating in the cryogenic areas, and DPAs at the first wall.
Key parameters are summarized in Table 6. It is important to emphasize
that this study employs a simplified homogeneous model for the shield
and breeder zones.
Future work should focus on advancing this preliminary model by
conducting a detailed analysis of a heterogeneous blanket configu-
ration. This will involve evaluating the neutronics, mechanical, and
Fig. 39. Physical dimensions of the first coil of the coilset, including its casing (in
mm). With casing, the coil is about 10.4 m tall, has 6.5 m of radial extent, and extends
over 4.8 m in toroidal direction.
thermal performance of such a blanket, alongside a thorough manu-
facturability assessment. A critical risk to address is the interaction
between lead-lithium and water, a well-documented exothermic reac-
tion [279]. To mitigate this, we currently rely on established designs
like the WCLL, which incorporates double-walled tubes to bolster the
reactor’s safety and reliability [280]. Additionally, further research—
including simulation and experimental studies—will be necessary to
address corrosion challenges and to understand the magnetohydrody-
namic effects in liquid lithium-lead, similar to the studies performed
in [245]. Activated corrosion products, activated lithium-lead and ac-
tivated water will also require careful shielding considerations, due
to their mobility around the building. These steps will be crucial for
refining the blanket and shield design to ensure it meets the demands
of a commercial fusion reactor.
2.9. Magnets
In Fig. 39 we display a selected coil of Stellaris with its correspond-
ing casing, including physical dimensions in millimeters. The coils have
an approximate size of 7 × 5 × 10 m, with a typical circumference of
25 m, and the conductor needs to be manufactured using superconduct-
ing material, for which multiple options exist. High-temperature su-
perconductors (HTS), particularly ReBCO-based superconductors, have
important advantages for high-field magnetic confinement fusion. Most
notably, they allow for designs with higher magnetic field strengths,
as the superconducting material can withstand much larger critical
current densities at high magnetic field strengths compared to con-
ventional low-temperature superconductors [281–283]. The technology
is also reaching maturity, with ReBCO-based coils tested at relevant
parameters—despite outstanding problems such as quench manage-
ment and high stored energy. At the time of writing, the current
record for the highest field strength achieved by a tested magnet has
45.5 T [284] of peak field on the HTS. The SPARC tokamak [19] is
currently being constructed using ReBCO-based magnets.
Despite their advantages, ReBCO-coated conductors pose several
challenges for cable design, which typically involve assembling hun-
dreds of individual HTS tapes in a specific arrangement. The major
limitations for cables, especially in fusion applications, can be at-
tributed to three key aspects. First, the mechanical stress and strain
that the conductor and the cable endure during the manufacturing
process and operation result in significant limitations. Second, the
anisotropic behavior of the ReBCO material under magnetic fields leads
to critical current density values that are much lower for magnetic
fields perpendicular to the flat face of the tape than for magnetic
fields parallel to the tape, especially for the fields and temperatures of
interest. Third, ensuring electro-thermal stability (i.e., avoiding quench
events and loss of superconducting state) is crucial during the design
process.
Several successful cabling techniques have been developed over the
past decade to address these challenges. Among these are concepts such
Fusion Engineering and Design xxx (xxxx) xxx 
21 
