J. Lion et al.
Fig. 7. Neoclassical radial transport coefficients 𝐷⋆
11 as a function of collisionality 𝜈⋆,
in vacuum and at the target volume-averaged plasma ⟨𝛽⟩𝑉= 3.0%. The normalized
radial electric field, 𝑣∗
𝐸=
𝐸𝑟
𝑣𝐵0 was set to 10−3. 𝑣is the particle velocity and 𝐵0 is
the flux-surface averaged magnetic field strength. Configurations are evaluated at mid-
radius (i.e., 𝜌= 0.5). The computation was performed with SFINCS using free-boundary
VMEC equilibria.
Fig. 8. The bootstrap current density profile 𝐽𝐵 𝐶for the different species at the design
target of ⟨𝛽⟩𝑉= 3.0% as a function of the plasma minor radius 𝑟. The integrated toroidal
current is 𝐼BC ≃ 23 k A.
The bootstrap current is another important neoclassical quantity.
Fig. 8 shows the magnitude of the bootstrap current density for dif-
ferent species. Species profiles are computed using the 0.5-D models
that will be introduced in Section 2.3. The radial electric field value
for this computation was evaluated with the NTSS code [111] in the
ion-root case (see ). For these profiles, the integrated bootstrap current
is approximately 𝐼BC ≃ 23 k A. For most practical purposes, a toroidal
current with this magnitude can be neglected, as it would result in a
shift of the rotational transform at the edge of only 0.5% .
Ideal-MHD stability. In QI configurations with low net toroidal current,
MHD current-driven modes are expected to be negligible. However, it is
important to consider the stability of pressure-driven ideal-MHD modes.
In this analysis, local ideal-MHD stability criteria are employed to eval-
uate the configuration’s stability against ballooning and interchange
modes.
To this end, we examine the configuration’s stability against the
ideal-MHD interchange mode using the Mercier criterion [112–115].
Fig. 9. The normalized Mercier criterion 𝛷2
edge𝐷Merc as a function of the normalized
toroidal flux 𝑠for different volume-averaged plasma 𝛽. A positive value of the Mercier
criterion suggests a stable configuration with respect to the high-mode number ideal-
MHD interchange mode, whereas a negative value suggests an unstable configuration.
The proposed configuration features a positive Mercier criterion over the whole plasma
volume up to and beyond the target volume-averaged 𝛽value of ⟨𝛽⟩𝑉= 3.0%. The red
dashed line represents the boundary of stability. The evaluation was performed using
the free boundary VMEC equilibrium.
Fig. 10. Highest growth rate of the ideal-MHD infinite-𝑛ballooning mode across all
evaluated field lines on a flux surface 𝛾max, plotted as a function of the normalized
toroidal flux 𝑠for different volume-averaged plasma 𝛽. The growth rates are evaluated
with the COBRAVMEC code. Negative growth rates indicate a stable configuration,
positive growth rates indicate an unstable configuration. The red dashed line represents
the boundary of stability. The evaluation was performed using the free boundary VMEC
equilibrium.
Appendix D describes the adopted definition of the Mercier criterion. A
positive value of the Mercier criterion is a necessary (but not sufficient)
condition for a stable configuration at that specific radial location,
whereas a negative value suggests potential instability.
Fig. 9 presents the Mercier criterion as a function of normalized
toroidal flux for various volume-averaged plasma 𝛽values, as evaluated
with VMEC using the free-boundary equilibrium. The results show
positive values across the entire plasma profile up to and beyond the
target 𝛽of ⟨𝛽⟩𝑉= 3.0% (see Fig. 9).
Additionally, we employ the COBRAVMEC code [109], which com-
putes the local (on a field line) growth rates of ideal-MHD infinite-𝑛
ballooning modes using the VMEC free-boundary equilibrium solution.
Fig. 10 shows the highest growth rate across all evaluated field lines
on a flux surface as a function of normalized toroidal flux for various
volume-averaged plasma 𝛽values. For each flux surface, growth rates
are computed on 100 field lines with starting locations uniformly
distributed across the poloidal and toroidal directions. We find that
the free-boundary plasma configuration is stable against ideal-MHD
infinite-𝑛ballooning modes throughout the entire plasma domain up
to and beyond the design volume-averaged plasma ⟨𝛽⟩𝑉= 3%.
Equilibrium resiliency with respect to finite-𝛽effects. Optimized QI con-
figurations tend to be particularly resilient against varying plasma
Fusion Engineering and Design xxx (xxxx) xxx 
6 
