J. Lion et al.
Fig. 44. (a): Analogously to the right plot in Fig. 42, curvature distribution for coil 4.
The upper limit is obtained by measurement in CroCo [286] cable stack as described
in the text. (b): Torsion distribution for coil 0.
involve locally replacing the superconducting tape with copper tape (or
other stabilizers compliant with the tape structure) wherever needed.
Using this technique would also reduce the amount of HTS tape re-
quired: coil 0, without grading, would require 807 km of 6 mm tape,
but with perfect grading (assuming 𝑗op∕𝑗crit = 80% everywhere), this
requirement decreases to 167 km.
It must be reiterated that locally aligning and grading the tapes
introduces engineering complexity to the design and manufacturing
process. Alignment requires precise calibration due to the narrow 𝑗crit
peak around the ReBCO ̂𝑐-axis, which restricts flexibility for adjust-
ments and necessitates advanced manufacturing tools and techniques
for tracking tape alignment. In our quench simulations, we proceed
with the assumption of a constant 𝑗op∕𝑗crit throughout the turns, as
achieved through tape grading.
Winding-induced strain. HTS stacks degrade under strain, induced by
bending and twisting them into the required form for fusion mag-
nets. Stellarator non-planar magnets are particularly complex. Previous
studies have examined bending strain and field alignment optimiza-
tion [299,300]. While a full strain analysis is beyond the scope of
this paper, especially considering the strong anisotropy of the HTS
tape stack as a composite material, we can draw conclusions about
the feasibility of this concept by analyzing the curvature and torsion
profiles of each turn across the winding packs. In the context of this
analysis, we refer to curvature as the total curvature, equal to the
square sum of the geodesic and normal curvatures.
The left plot of Fig. 44 illustrates the curvature profile for coil 4,
which experiences the largest curvature values across the coil set. Turn-
to-turn variation is significant, especially in high-curvature regions. To
extract a curvature limit, we compare this distribution to the values
obtained in [301] for a CroCo [286] cable with a maximum size of
3 × 3 mm. That study shows that the bending radius achieving critical
current degradation is lower than 5%, meaning 𝐼𝑐∕𝐼0
𝑐> 95%, where
𝐼0
𝑐is the critical current of the unbent cable, with ranges between 206
and 250 mm for the cable under consideration. The minimum bending
radius depends only mildly on the bending angle, indicating no signif-
icant difference between applying hard-way or easy-way bending for
this type of cable. However, the minimum bending radius exhibits some
statistical variation across the samples collected in the aforementioned
study. We therefore consider a reference value of 232 mm, which is
the average value obtained for the measurements in easy-way bending
only, the ones showing the largest degradation. We scale this value to
a 6 × 6 mm cable, obtaining 464 mm as the minimum bending radius,
which implies a curvature limit of 𝜅limit = 2.16 m−1. All turns are safely
below this limit, allowing us to conclude that degradation induced by
bending is not a limiting factor for the present concept.
The right plot of Fig. 44 shows an analogous distribution for the
torsion of coil 0, which experiences the highest torsion values. A typical
turn experiences torsion below 1 rad/m. However, some turns present
a spike in the torsion profile up to about 5 rad/m, corresponding to
a twist pitch of about 1.25 m. Investigation of these cases showed
that these turns experience a highly twisting magnetic field, where the
magnitude of the field component orthogonal to the current direction
drops to almost zero, fluctuating significantly. A study of the impact
of torsion on HTS tapes demonstrates no degradation for twist pitches
larger than 200 mm [302], suggesting that our concept is safely above
the degradation limit.
It is important to emphasize that critical current degradation is not
the only problem that appears when applying large torsion. Another
key issue is delamination, wherein the different tapes in the stack
may naturally follow slightly different orientations. While a complete
analysis of delamination is beyond the scope of this paper, we assume
in our concept that the copper jacket surrounding the HTS tape stack is
strong enough to hold the cable in place, inducing the necessary torsion
and curvature to achieve the required orientation of the tape stacks.
Structural analysis. We now evaluate the effect of the high magnetic
field inside the coil in terms of the material stress and strain concen-
trations for the magnet design. An axisymmetric model was employed
to approximate the magnetic field 𝐁and the resulting 𝐈 × 𝐁loads.
This approach simplifies the analysis while capturing the maximum
field magnitude (∼25 T) and the corresponding peak loads, which are
critical for understanding the structural forces in the system. The model
effectively treats the coil as a planar coil in a linear arrangement to
approximate the field within the winding pack, with the external field
represented as a linear stack of circular coils. It is acknowledged that
the axisymmetric assumption does not account for directional varia-
tions in 𝐁that occur in the true 3D geometry, which could influence
the detailed load distribution. However, for the purposes of this study,
the axisymmetric model provides a reasonable first approximation.
Future work will include a more detailed 3D analysis to address these
directional effects. For consistency with the inter-coil support structure
model (introduced in the next section) and the magnetic field peak and
distribution, we locate the center of the winding pack at a radius of
2.5 m. The out-of-plane (hoop) stress is then evaluated by integrating
over the full revolution of the coil. Appropriate continuity boundary
conditions are applied to the surfaces of the ‘air’ domain proximal to
the outer pancakes. In the simulation, the plates and casing are modeled
as independent bodies in contact with each other, with no friction or
clamping, to capture the most conservative stress state.
The wall thicknesses of the casings are consistent with the intercoil
support structure (introduced in the next section). In this section, we
show only local effects within the winding pack.
Fig. 45 illustrates the resulting von Mises stress plot within the
winding pack as obtained with the model described above. The peak
stress is located at the center of the winding pack, toward which the
local forces are oriented. For the present design, the peak stresses
are in the range of 600 MPa, well below the imposed stress limit of
800 MPa (see Section 2.10). The peak strain on the HTS stack due to
the deformation of the winding pack is below 0.2%, which is within
acceptable limits [303,304], even when adding strain from bending.
Charging time and steady state losses. Charging times are crucial, as
they significantly impact the duration of remote maintenance periods.
Additionally, electrical losses in steady-state are important to esti-
mate parasitic electrical inefficiencies in the reactor’s power balance.
To obtain the value of the contact resistance (𝑅c), we used a two-
dimensional electrostatic model to calculate the current path between
adjacent cables. This model assumes no insulation between turns in one
pancake, but complete insulation between pancakes. Other insulation
approaches, such as partial or metal insulation [305–307], are not
considered for the time being. From the present design, we obtain
an overall contact resistivity ranging from a maximum of 11.2 μΩ for
coil 0 to a minimum of 8.85 μΩ for coil 5. The different resistance
values are due to the varying number of turns per coil. Resistive joints
with resistance in the order of 4 nΩ have been demonstrated in the
literature [288,308,309], and this value is assumed here. Inductance
Fusion Engineering and Design xxx (xxxx) xxx 
24 
