J. Lion et al.
Fig. 48. Schema of the support structure set-up used for the analysis. The exact set-up
of the stress simulation with boundary conditions and connection is described in the
text. (a) Internal view; (b) external view.
for which we define a 3D model consisting of the coil winding packs
and a design of the coil support structure—which consists of casings,
inter-coil supports, and the central support ring. Fig. 48 schematically
shows the different components in one module. For the simulation,
we ‘smear out’ the internal structure of the winding pack as one
homogeneous and isotropic material. We take an effective average of
the winding pack material, obtaining an averaged Young’s modulus of
about 170 GPa and a Poisson’s ratio of 0.3 for the winding pack. For this
high-level calculation, we simply consider the support structure and the
casings with the winding pack that carries the loads to be fully bonded.
We then proceed to calculate static electromagnetic loads, using a
fixed discretization of 300 points for each coil. This point load is then
converted to a volumetric load, mapped to the section of the winding
pack (WP), and interpolated with the adjacent points within Ansys.
Resulting net forces for each coil range from 100 MN to 350 MN per
coil. We model only one full stellarator module (one field period), and
periodic boundary conditions are applied to ensure the displacement
field is continuous at the interfaces. Support legs are constrained in the
𝑍and toroidal 𝜑directions at their root to simulate the behavior of
cryogenic legs, which are not modeled here but which would result in
similar behavior [330].
The support structure design includes three key features:
• thick steel casings around the winding pack;
• welded or bolted plates between the coils to stabilize lateral loads,
similar to the concept suggested in [59];
• inner support rings that carry a major fraction of the net centering
force.
Depending on the local force field, support plates are not needed
everywhere. This creates natural openings that can be used as ports for
internal components, such as the first wall and blanket inlet/outlet. The
open port area is mostly located on the outboard side of the machine,
in the low-field region, and amounts to roughly 200 m2 per module.
We design a specific opening for the ports for ECRH injection from the
inboard side, which is included in the stress calculations.
The coil casings could be cast with parts weighing between 63
tons and 200 tons—which is challenging, but comparable to existing
parts in heavy machinery [331]. The plates between the coils have
thicknesses between 0.7 m and 1 m and could be forged, with the
heaviest plate in this design weighing 58 tons. The inner rings, about
0.7 m thick and weighing about 200 tons each, can also be forged. The
reinforcement gussets would be designed to be welded as the coils are
successively installed. The weights of these parts are compatible with
industry standards.
A linear structural simulation is carried out using the volumetric
loads and boundary conditions in Ansys. Second-order tetrahedrons
are used for meshing, with a maximum mesh size of 0.15 m. Results
displaying peak stresses are shown in Fig. 49. Following the ASME
Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code Section VIII Division 2 [332], Eu-
rocode 3 [333], and Eurocode 8 [334], the stress state needs to be
decomposed between membrane and membrane plus bending stresses
Fig. 49. Von Mises stress in the support structure under full load. Forces are calculated
according to an axis-averaged magnetic field strength of 9 T. The majority of the support
structure stays below the design limit of 800 MPa for cryogenic AISI 316LN steel. (a)
Internal view; (b) external view.
Fig. 50. Displacement analysis of the coils under full load. The peak displacements
occur in the outboard region at the toroidal location where the magnetic field is highest
in the QI stellarator. (a) Internal view; (b) external view.
then respectively compared to 2/3 of the yield stress, and the yield
stress as upper limits. We study the stress state of our design in
multiple regions; the membrane stress in the high stress regions is lower
than 660 MPa. To simplify the assessment and the readability of the
stress of this high-level concept, we propose considering von Mises
stresses as a proxy for membrane plus bending stresses. The simulation
results indicate that those are below 800 MPa throughout most of the
structure, demonstrating its ability to withstand the electro-mechanical
loads. In the coil casings, the stress is below 700 MPa, providing a
margin for manufacturing defects inherent to steel casting. It is worth
reiterating that in comparison to tokamaks, QI stellarators are not
subject to disruptions and fatigue from cyclic loadings. Therefore, our
main design focus is the static electromagnetic loads.
Fig. 50 reports on simulated displacements of coils under full load.
A peak displacement of 15 mm is simulated here in the outboard side
of the high-field region. To quantify the effect of this displacement, we
repeat the most sensitive calculation: the calculation of the location of
the islands. We find distortions of the island locations to a comparable
degree as those caused by finite 𝛽effects as shown in Fig. 13, which
ultimately need to be controlled with an array of correction coils.
Finally, detailed tolerances, assembly, and manufacturing of the
support structure would need to be considered in further analyses.
2.11. Remote maintenance
Throughout the lifetime of a fusion reactor, several scheduled main-
tenance periods must be planned to replace deteriorating components.
Routine maintenance intervals are based on the anticipated lifespan
of critical parts. Key components expected to require multiple re-
placements during the stellarator’s operational life include first wall
tiles, blanket modules, and divertor plates. Minor maintenance tasks
should be manageable without significant machine disassembly, but
unplanned interventions must also be considered. These could include
replacing damaged diagnostics, repairing minor leaks, and addressing
the failure of major components. In this section, we outline strate-
gies for managing both major unplanned interventions and scheduled
remote maintenance periods.
Fusion Engineering and Design xxx (xxxx) xxx 
27 
