J. Lion et al.
as CORC, VIPER, CroCo, and BRAST [83,85,281,285–287]. Addition-
ally, HTS ‘stack in groove’ approaches – as applied in the Toroidal Field
Model Coil (TFMC) built in collaboration between MIT’s Plasma Science
and Fusion Center (PSFC) and Commonwealth Fusion System (CFS) for
the SPARC project – have shown promising characteristics [288,289].
For the superconducting magnets in this study, we propose a Non-
Insulated (NI) concept. The NI method in the present work ensures
that there is electric insulation between pancakes (azimuthally insu-
lated) and only steel (electrical contact) between radial turns. More
specifically, referring to Fig. 40, electric insulation between pancakes
implies that current can only move in the 𝛷-coordinate direction
(azimuthal) through the joints/connections at the first and last turns
of each pancake (the yellow sheet represents the electric insulation).
On the other hand, radial electric contact means that current can leak
in the 𝑟-coordinate direction (radially outward), particularly during
transients. The terminology of such a concept is coherent with the
current literature (e.g. TFMC and FSU/NHMFL [282,289]).
Unlike low-temperature-superconducting (LTS) magnets, HTS mag-
nets are fundamentally unlikely to quench unless they have a serious
defect in them. Nevertheless, demonstration of quench management is
necessary for risk mitigation purposes. NI coils offer a self-protecting
mechanism without complex external systems, allowing current to
bypass local hotspots and enhance thermal stability. They are passively
protected by natural current redistribution. However, large stored mag-
netic energy and highly non-uniform critical current distributions (es-
pecially with low critical current regions) can still cause damage [288,
289]. To mitigate quench damage, it is crucial to ensure that the ratio of
operational current density to critical current density, 𝑗op∕𝑗crit, varies
only very weakly along a turn, and does not exceed a critical limit,
which we take here to be 80%.
For the conductor design discussed here, we consider a fully pre-
soldered, field-aligned Stack Tape Cable (STC), enveloped in a copper
jacket that constrains the tape stack in the chosen orientation, similar
to the CroCo concept [286]. We exploit the anisotropic properties of Re-
BCO tapes and align the ‘ab plane’ (flat face) of the ReBCO tapes/stacks
with the magnetic field orientation, generalizing and extending to the
whole winding pack an approach proposed for the helical (heliotron)
reactor with the STARS conductor [290,291]. Field alignment improves
performance, but adds design complexity requiring precise calibration
and advanced manufacturing techniques. Additionally, we utilize grad-
ing techniques (i.e., intentionally reducing the number of tapes where
the magnetic field is lower [292]) to achieve an almost constant 𝑗op∕𝑗crit
ratio along the turns.
The conductor is wound in non-planar stacked ‘radial’ plates made
of stainless steel 316 (SS316), similar to concepts in previous de-
signs [293,294]. Fig. 40 shows a cross section of the winding pack for
a 256-turn coil (coil 4) and the geometric and material details of the
single unit cell. For each coil, we select a square winding pack with a
variable number of turns, ranging from 225 to 324 turns per coil.
We note that the winding pack orientation is fully decoupled from
the HTS tape stack orientation. The winding pack orientation is chosen
so that a flat face is tangential to the plasma at each point, allowing
for a vacuum vessel surface that is as flat as possible and maximizing
available space for the radial build while minimizing peak fields within
the winding pack. Conversely, the orientation of the HTS tape stack is
chosen to align with the magnetic field orientation at each point along
the cable for each turn inside a winding pack.
Each turn is sized at 20 mm × 20 mm, with a 6 mm × 6 mm soldered
tape stack embedded in a 15 mm diameter round copper former.
With these dimensions, the current per turn is constrained to a
maximum value of 50 kA, allowing for the use of ‘off-the-shelf’ current
leads to realize the connection between the superconductor in the coils
at cryogenic temperatures to the bus bars, which are connected to
the coil power supplies, at room temperature. The coils are cooled to
20 K using supercritical helium channels at 15–20 bar. This approach
entails using the casing as the pressure vessel itself, eliminating the
Fig. 40. A perpendicular cross section through the winding pack of the coil. The casing
is not shown here, and the stacks are not aligned with the field for the sake of clarity.
Note that 𝛷represents the toroidal coordinate, 𝛩the poloidal coordinate and 𝑟the
radial coordinate.
Table 7
Material fractions in a winding pack of one of the Stellaris coils.
Material
Fraction [%]
Tape stack
9
Copper jacket
35
Solder
12
Steel
36
Helium (cooling)
8
need for leak-tight pressure seals between the plates/turns. However,
issues such as uncontrolled helium flow distribution could arise; the
cooling concept is still under exploration. Alternative designs include
closed channels with welded lids or soldered-in copper/steel pipes. In
this paper, the operating temperature (Top) is set to 20 K to provide
a consistent basis for analysis, but it may be desirable to lower the
operating temperature to around 10–15 K to provide more margin.
In the chosen unit cell configuration, the current density per turn
is about 112 A∕mm2, and the current density per copper fraction is
approximately 355 A∕mm2, aligning the winding pack design with
similar proposed designs [288,289]. The resulting material fractions of
each winding pack are summarized in Table 7. We summarize major
coil features in Table 8. Note that we report the specs for only six
coils due to symmetry (i.e., 48 coils divided into four periods, with
each period containing 12 coils: six independent and six mirrored),
simplifying the representation.
In the following paragraphs, we discuss a high-level concept of a
magnet system for the first version of the coils for the Stellaris class
of stellarators, focusing on how the above challenges are addressed.
Our focus here is on the feasibility of the concept, as opposed to a full
engineering analysis. Some important design aspects, such as screening
currents and field quality, are not covered in this short analysis. Instead,
to validate the proposed design, we discuss the maximum field on the
conductor and the operational critical current margin, the winding-
induced curvature and torsion, the structural integrity of the winding
pack, the contact resistance between turns, and peak temperatures and
currents during a quench event.
Peak fields and critical current density. The peak magnetic field in stel-
larator coils can vary significantly from one coil to the next, especially
in QI stellarators with a large magnetic mirror ratio. The peak field is
also heavily dependent on the size of the winding pack, and is a decisive
parameter for force and critical current density calculations. Here,
we compute the peak fields using a 3D magneto-static model carried
out by means of finite element analysis with the commercial software
COMSOL MultiPhysics® [295]. For this calculation, we assume that the
current density distribution is uniform across the winding pack cross-
section. Fig. 41 shows the peak fields for each independent coil. At the
chosen 9 T axis-averaged magnetic field strength, the peak field inside
Fusion Engineering and Design xxx (xxxx) xxx 
22 
