Chapter 2. Stellarator Systems Code Models
non-alpha particle heating 𝑝¬𝛼(e.g. in D-D fusion) and a term for auxiliary heating
𝑝𝑎𝑢𝑥. Writing these expressions explicitly, Equation A.3 becomes
𝑝conf
Loss + 𝑝Br + 𝑝Line + 𝑝Sync
!= 𝑓𝛼𝑝𝛼+ 𝑓¬𝛼𝑝¬𝛼+ 𝑝aux.
(2.9)
Here, 𝑓𝛼is the fraction of the alpha particle energy that is deposited in the plasma,
which is an input parameter in Process and depends on the configuration. This
factor will be discussed in more detail in subsection 2.2.4 and in section 3.1. Similarly
𝑓¬𝛼accounts for the particle confinement fraction of non-alpha particles. Process’
model for radiation losses (𝑝Br, 𝑝line, 𝑝Sync) is described in [135, 136]. For 𝑝conf
Loss, Pro-
cess uses the effective energy confinement time 𝜏𝐸to determine the effective power
transfer
𝑝conf
Loss ≃𝑝scaling
Loss
≡𝑤
𝜏𝐸
,
(2.10)
where 𝑤is the volume averaged total plasma energy density which is obtained from
the imposed profiles for particle species averaged density 𝑛and temperature 𝑇,
𝑤= 3
2 ∫
1
0
𝑑𝜌√𝑔𝑛(𝜌)𝑇(𝜌).
(2.11)
In stellarators, 𝜌is usually chosen as the effective radius, which fulfils
√𝑔∼𝜌.
(2.12)
The energy confinement time 𝜏𝐸is obtained via empirical scaling laws. The used
scaling law for stellarators in Process is the so-called intermachine ISS04 scaling [95],
𝜏ISS04
𝐸
= 0.134 𝑓ren𝑎2.28𝑅0.64
0
𝑛0.52
𝑒
𝐵0.84
𝑡
𝜄0.41
2/3 𝑃−0.61,
(2.13)
where 𝑎is the minor radius, 𝑅0 is the major radius, 𝑛is the line averaged electron
density, 𝐵𝑡the toroidal magnetic field, 𝜄2/3 ≡𝜄2/3(ℭ) is the rotational transform (at
𝑠= 2/3), 𝑃is the combined effective plasma heating, and 𝑓ren is a proportionality
factor that measures the magnetic configuration dependent deviation from the ISS04
scaling law. In principle, 𝑓ren is determined by ℭdirectly, although a reliable a priori
method of calculating this factor is not available up to date. Instead, Process can
iterate 𝑓ren within user set boundaries and return a needed configuration factor for
the optimised power plant design point. If sufficient data and sufficiently different
configurations with data were available, it would seem possible to try to resolve a
proportionality factor by finding a set of effective parameters that uniquely determine
𝑓ren in such scaling laws, but the preconditions (sufficient available configurations)
are not yet given for such an analysis.
32
