Nucl. Fusion 61 (2021) 126021
J. Lion et al
Figure 2. The workflow of the pre-calculation step: a configuration
C (coil filaments and flux surfaces) is assumed as input from
stellarator optimization. A set of Process relevant parameters ai is
calculated based on a reference point C, which Process uses to
calculate and optimize an iteration vector x for a reactor
design point, according to an objective function f and according to
the applied constraints. The found design point can be used again as
feedback for stellarator optimization.
detailed calculations. An example here would be the compu-
tation of the maximal coil force density f max(C) as effective
parameter from 3D calculations for a reference coil set. In this
example the scaling of f max within the systems code then is
a linear scaling law in Bmax and the current density j, both
parameters that the systems code optimizes for.
We implement the systems code models in a way that
they reflect extrapolations of the reference point C in the
following macroscopic design parameters: the major over-
all size of the machine (coil and plasma size), the minor
plasma radius a at constant coil radius, and the total magnetic
field strength on axis Bt. For the plasma design, the imple-
mented scaling parameters are the plasma density, tempera-
ture, and the ISS04 ‘renormalization’ factor (a measure for the
configuration-dependent quality of energy confinement [21]).
The stellarator-Process version is capable of optimizing for
devices by scaling these parameters as a part of the optimiza-
tion vector now. In addition to the above listed set of iteration
parameters, Process also optimizes in the engineering param-
eter design space, with the ‘usual’ parameters such as winding
pack size, coil quench times, critical current density safety
margins in the superconductor,copper fractions in the winding
pack, net electricity output, etc, also see [8, 9].
Note that by this prescription the coil number and the coil
shapes are considered fixed by stellarator-Process and only the
overall size of the coils is scaled. A broader device scan in
different stellarator configurations or different coil-sets can be
done by sampling different configurations C using stellarator
optimization codes.
3. Models
Below, we introduce the newly developed stellarator-specific
systems code models that aim to describe a general class of
stellarators with a modular coil set, irrespective of their shape.
The stellarator modifications to Process are comprehensive in
the sense that they allow an equivalent modeling stellarators
compared to the tokamak treatment [8, 9].
For each model we describe both the external procedure
of calculating the effective parameters as well as the systems
code internal scaling equations. The effective parameters that
are calculated in the external step are distinguished into two
categories. The first type are configuration-specific quantities,
that are used directly in follow up calculations and these are
denoted by ai(C). The second type of parameters are those that
are calculated as a reference point for the scaling equations and
these are denoted as hatted values, ˆai(C), where C represents
the configuration stemming from stellarator optimisation (3D
MHD equilibrium and associated coil filaments).
3.1. Plasma volume and surface
The plasma volume V and the plasma surface area S are basic
properties in Process. For example, subsequent calculations of
the fusion power, fuelling rates, or material loads depend on
the plasma volume. Similarly, the surface area is an important
quantity to approximate the first wall area and to scale the heat
flux densities.
The spatial location of stellarator-symmetric flux surfaces
can be parameterized by a set of Fourier coefficients Rc
m,n and
Zs
m,n, where m and n are the poloidal and toroidal mode num-
bers respectively. The cylindrical coordinates for each flux
surface can be obtained by
R(s, u, v) =
mmax

m=0
nmax

n=−nmax
Rc
m,n(s) cos(mu −Nfnv),
(1)
Z(s, u, v) =
mmax

m=0
nmax

n=−nmax
Zs
m,n(s) sin(mu −Nfnv).
(2)
Here, u describes a poloidal coordinate, v
the polar
toroidal coordinate, and s is a flux surface coordinate [22].
Equations (1) and (2) hold for stellarator symmetric config-
urations with a field period symmetry of Nf.
The volume enclosed by the last closed flux surface can be
calculated for a reference size (ˆR, ˆa) according to
ˆV(C) =
 √gds du dv
= 1
3
 2π
0
 2π
0
R (z∂uR −R∂uz) du dv.
(3)
The surface area of a flux surface can be calculated by
ˆS(C) =

|∇s|√gdu dv
=
 2π
0
 2π
0

R2(∂uz)2 + R2(∂uR)2
+ (∂vR∂zu −∂vz∂uR)2 1
2 du dv.
(4)
3
