J. Lion et al.
lifetimes for the device, as fast neutron fluences are measured
to significantly degrade the performance of superconducting coils
after 3 × 1022 m−2 [261]. The neutron fluence on the copper
stabilizer should also be considered as the conductivity has been
shown to reduce with neutron irradiation by 5% after a neutron
fluence of 1.5 × 1023 m−2 [262]. One strategy to potentially address
a conductivity decrease would be to make the copper stabilizer
thicker to accommodate the anticipated decrease in conductivity.
• Neutron Shielding for Cryogenic Area Protection: We determine
whether the neutron shielding sufficiently reduces nuclear heat-
ing in the cryogenic regions to acceptable levels, ensuring the
integrity of the cryogenic components.
• Lifetime Estimation of Key Components: We estimate the opera-
tional lifetime of the main components of the machine, consider-
ing the neutron flux and the resulting material degradation over
time.
Safety and activation calculations, as well as structural and thermal
simulations, fall outside the scope of this analysis.
Tritium breeding ratio analysis. We performed a neutronics simulation
using 15 × 106 particles per batch over 5 batches, tallying TBR, nuclear
heating, and neutron flux. Periodic boundary conditions were applied
at the 𝜑= 0 and 𝜑= 𝜋∕2 surfaces, where 𝜑represents the toroidal
angle. No particle loss was observed during the simulation, ensuring
accurate results.
The simulation was focused solely on neutron transport, with the
nuclear heating tally assuming that secondary gamma power is de-
posited locally. The computed TBR, accounting for the remote main-
tenance solution discussed in Section 2.11 and a conceptual divertor
model, is 1.1070 ± 0.0002. After considering a 3% reduction due to the
heating ports, the final TBR stands at 1.074, which includes margins to
account for uncertainties and potential incomplete models.
Power multiplication. Using the same 3D neutronic simulation that was
employed for the TBR calculation, we also tallied the power multiplica-
tion within the blanket, which primarily results from exothermal (Li-6,
n) reactions. From this analysis, we obtained a power multiplication
factor of 1.2. The initial 2160 MW of neutron power produced by
the reactor is thus amplified within the blanket to a nuclear power of
approximately 2611 MW. This thermal power is what can be extracted
from the blanket and shield systems, contributing to the overall energy
balance of the power plant. Corresponding simulation results are shown
in Fig. 37.
Neutron shielding for superconductor protection. To ensure sufficient sta-
tistical accuracy in the estimation of fast neutron fluxes in the volume
of the superconducting magnets, we performed a dedicated simulation
with a total of 2.5 × 109 Monte Carlo particles.
The resulting fast neutron flux (𝐸𝑛> 0.1 MeV) at the magnets is
illustrated in Fig. 36. The average fast neutron flux is estimated to
be 1.8 × 1013 1∕m2∕s. As the statistics of the Monte Carlo simulation
even at 2.5 × 109 launched particles is particularly low, and assuming
local shielding can be used in severely loaded sections, we consider
the 99th quantile for the lifetime estimation of the coils due to fast
neutron flux, which is about 9.5 × 1013 1∕m2∕s. Estimating the allowable
fluence for ReBCO superconductors (from degradation of the critical
current density in the superconductor by fission neutrons [261]) as
3 × 1022 1∕m2, the magnet system would have a lifetime of approximately
10 full power years at a fusion power of 2700 MW.
Additionally, the neutron spectra at the coils are presented in
Fig. 35, providing further insight into the distribution of neutron energy
levels impacting the superconducting magnets.
Fig. 35. Neutron flux per unit lethargy, as obtained from OpenMC with the set-
up described in the text. The spectra describe the winding pack of all six coils
independently at full power.
Fig. 36. Fast neutron flux, as obtained from OpenMC with the set-up described in
the text. The figure shows the unstructured mesh tally on the magnet. The maximum
neutron flux is 7.27 × 1013 1∕m2∕s∕GWf (neutron flux normalized by GW fusion power),
and the mean value is 6.6 × 1012 1∕m2∕s∕GWf.
Neutron shielding for cryogenic area protection. For the nuclear heating
at the winding pack, we obtain an average value of 35.5 W∕m3. This
heat load will need to be managed by the cryo-plant of Stellaris and
is in the order of the EU DEMO target, which is about 50 W∕m3 peak
nuclear heating [263].
However, it is important to note that the EU DEMO requirement is
designed for a 4 K cryogenic environment, whereas the magnets in Stel-
laris are anticipated to be cooled to 20 K. Operating at this higher tem-
perature offers an increase in efficiency of the cryogenic plant. Overall,
maintaining an average nuclear heating below 50 W∕m3 is considered
an applicable reference for ensuring viable power plant efficiency,
considering the parasitic power consumption by the cryo-plant.
It should also be noted that local differences in nuclear heating
power density can lead to local temperature variations within the
winding pack, which again can affect quench behavior. However, these
temperature differences are highly dependent on the detailed cooling
design within the winding pack and a respective analysis is left for
further studies.
Lifetime estimation of key components. To estimate the operational life-
time of key reactor components, we calculate the Displacements-Per-
Atom (DPA) in regions experiencing the highest neutron flux, specifi-
cally the first wall and the divertor.
Neutron damage was tallied using OpenMC via the ‘444 Microscopic
Cross-Section Type (MT) reaction’ for iron isotopes in the first wall and
copper isotopes in the divertor. DPA values were evaluated using two
models: the NRT model [264] and the more recently developed ARC
model [265].
The ARC model, which has shown good agreement with molecular
dynamics simulations, particularly at higher energies [266], provides
Fusion Engineering and Design xxx (xxxx) xxx 
19 
