J. Lion et al.
Guiraud: Software. F. Hernández: Writing – review & editing, Super-
vision. S. Henneberg: Supervision, Methodology. R. Herrero: Writing
– original draft, Visualization, Software, Methodology. C. Hintze:
Methodology. H. Höchter: Software. J. Jelonnek: Writing – review
& editing, Investigation. F. Jenko: Writing – review & editing, Su-
pervision. R. Jorge: Supervision, Methodology. M. Kaiser: Software.
M. Kubie: Writing – review & editing, Supervision, Software, Method-
ology, Conceptualization. E. Lascas Neto: Software, Methodology.
H. Laqua: Writing – review & editing, Supervision. M. Leoni: Writ-
ing – original draft, Software, Methodology. J.F. Lobsien: Software,
Methodology. V. Maurin: Writing – original draft, Software, Method-
ology. A. Merlo: Writing – original draft, Visualization, Software,
Methodology, Investigation. D. Middleton-Gear: Writing – original
draft, Visualization, Methodology, Investigation. M. Pascu: Software.
G.G. Plunk: Writing – review & editing, Supervision, Methodology. N.
Riva: Writing – original draft, Visualization, Software, Methodology,
Investigation. M. Savtchouk: Software. F. Sciortino: Writing – review
& editing, Methodology. J. Schilling: Writing – review & editing,
Visualization, Methodology. J. Shimwell: Writing – review & editing,
Validation, Investigation. A. Di Siena: Supervision, Methodology. R.
Slade: Writing – review & editing, Methodology, Conceptualization. T.
Stange: Writing – review & editing, Methodology. T.N. Todd: Writing –
review & editing, Supervision, Conceptualization. L. Wegener: Writing
– review & editing, Conceptualization. F. Wilms: Software, Methodol-
ogy. P. Xanthopoulos: Supervision, Investigation. M. Zheng: Software,
Investigation.
Declaration of competing interest
The authors declare the following financial interests/personal rela-
tionships which may be considered as potential competing interests:
Eduardo Lascas Neto reports financial support was provided by Proxima
Fusion GmbH. All Proxima Fusion Co-Authors reports a relationship
with Proxima Fusion GmbH that includes: employment and equity or
stocks. Martin Kubie, Wei Guo has patent #US63/665,597 pending to
Proxima Fusion GmbH. Victor Maurin, Jean-Claude Angles has patent
#EP24197718 pending to Proxima Fusion GmbH. Tom Todd, Martin
Kubie, David Middleton-Gear, Wei Guo has patent #US63/688,883
pending to Proxima Fusion GmbH. Jorrit Lion, Rodrigo Herrero has
patent #EP24197765 pending to Proxima Fusion GmbH. If there are
other authors, they declare that they have no known competing fi-
nancial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to
influence the work reported in this paper.
Acknowledgments
The authors would like to thank Alan Rochford, Fabrice Moncade,
Bernhard Auchmann, Chuanren Wu, Felix Schauer, and Nikola Jaksic
for their contributions and advice along the way.
We are grateful to Felix Warmer, Cesar Luongo, Craig Beidler, Per
Helander, Hartmut Zohm, and Christian Bachmann, for feedback on the
draft and their key role in driving the field forward over many years.
We are also thankful to Yasuhiro Suzuki for access and support with
the HINT-3D code.
We thank all open source developers whose software have en-
abled this work, particularly the following developer communities:
simsopt, OpenMC, Gmsh, FEniCS-X, Open-CASCADE.
The work presented here was independently funded by Proxima
Fusion. Some optimizations and simulations were performed at the Max
Planck Computing and Data Facility (Germany). Part of the work was
funded by the European Union (EU) via the Euratom Research and
Training Programme (Grant Agreement No. 101052200—EUROfusion).
A. Goodman is supported by a grant from the Simons Foundation,
United States (Grant No. 560651).
Appendix A. Confinement time scaling
For the physics design point exploration performed in Section 2.3,
we restrict ourselves to a simple ‘0.5D’ power balance, where the
power balance is enforced only globally, after integration of both sides
of the power balance equation. We introduce the terminology 𝑝≡
⟨𝑝⟩𝑉≡∫𝑉𝑝𝑑 𝑉, where 𝑉is the plasma volume. Then, the integrated
steady-state power balance can be written as
𝑝loss
!= 𝑝heat,
(A.1)
⇒𝑝rad + 𝑝conf = 𝑓𝛼𝑝𝛼+ 𝑝aux.
(A.2)
In these equations, 𝑝loss is the (volume averaged) loss power density,
𝑝heat the heating power density, 𝑝rad the loss power density by radia-
tion, 𝑝conf the loss power density due to finite confinement, 𝑝aux is the
auxiliary power density and 𝑝𝛼is the heating power density by fusion
alpha particles. 𝑓𝛼is the fraction of the total alpha power absorbed in
the plasma. When writing the volume averaged confinement loss power
density 𝑝conf in terms of the plasma energy density 𝑤and the energy
confinement time 𝜏𝐸, we arrive at
𝑝rad + 𝑤
𝜏𝐸
= 𝑓𝛼𝐸𝛼𝑛𝐷𝑛𝑇⟨𝜎 𝑣⟩𝑇+ 𝑝aux.
(A.3)
Here, 𝑝aux is the auxiliary heating power density. 𝐸𝛼is the energy
carried by fast fusion alpha particles (3.5 MeV), 𝑛𝐷and 𝑛𝑇are densities
of deuterium and tritium in the plasma respectively. ⟨𝜎 𝑣⟩𝑇is the
Maxwellian averaged fusion reactivity.
The radiation term 𝑝rad we split in line and continuum radiation,
where we use a priori assumed impurity fractions and calculate the
cooling factors using the ‘Aurora’ code [138], relying on the Atomic
Data and Analysis Structure (ADAS) database [139]. For synchrotron
radiation, we take the model suggested in Ref. [140],
𝑝sy nc
[W∕m−3] = 1.32 ⋅10−7 (𝐵 𝑇𝑒
)2.5
√𝑛𝑒
𝑎
(
1.0 + 18.0 𝑎
𝑅
√
𝑇𝑒
)
.
(A.4)
Here 𝑎, 𝑅are given in m, 𝑇𝑒in k eV, 𝐵in T and 𝑛𝑒in 1020 m−3.
To resolve the helium fraction 𝑓He, one introduces the alpha particle
balance equation,
𝑛He
𝜏⋆
𝛼
= 𝑛𝐷𝑛𝑇⟨𝜎 𝑣⟩𝑇,
(A.5)
and then usually 𝜏⋆
𝛼
is assumed to be proportional to the energy
confinement time: 𝜏⋆
𝛼= 𝜌⋆𝜏𝐸, where we use 𝜌⋆∼ 8, where 𝜌⋆shall
not be confused with the normalized minor plasma radius. Determining
reasonable values for 𝜌⋆, and validity of that model in general, is a
subject of active research [161,347]. In this article we introduce a new
heuristic value 𝑓suppr which is used to suppress the resulting helium
density by a constant factor,
𝑛′
He = 𝑓suppr𝑛He.
(A.6)
This assumption is informed by two considerations: first, by suppression
of helium ash due to a positive ambipolar radial electric field, and
second, by the effect that fast particles do not slow down directly in
the core, but are radially displaced due to their finite drift orbit. This
effect was quantified in [110] by employing Monte-Carlo slowing down
simulations in various stellarators. We capture it here heuristically by
choosing a value of 𝑓suppr = 1
2.
To extrapolate to a reactor, one can use the ISS04 inter-machine
scaling, which reads [141]
𝜏𝐸= 0.134 𝑓ren𝑎2.28𝐵0.84𝜄0.41
2∕3 𝑛0.54
19 𝑅0.64𝑃−0.61.
(A.7)
where 𝑓ren is a multiplier for the ISS04 scaling and the other variables
have their usual meanings. Rewriting the heating power 𝑃in terms of
temperature 𝑇, 𝑃= 𝑊∕𝜏𝐸, where 𝑊is the stored plasma energy, one
arrives at
𝜏𝐸= 0.152 𝑓2.56
ren 𝑎2.72𝐵2.15𝜄1.05
2∕3 𝑛−0.18
19
𝑅0.08𝑇−1.56
keV ,
(A.8)
Fusion Engineering and Design xxx (xxxx) xxx 
32 
