J. Lion et al.
low-order rational values (e.g. 0.8). The 𝜖eff profile shows remarkable
resiliency to profile variations.
The two chosen metrics for evaluating MHD stability suggest that
the profile shape can affect the MHD stability of the configuration.
Positive growth rates for the ideal-MHD infinite-𝑛ballooning mode are
observed near the plasma boundary, suggesting instability in that re-
gion for profiles with strong pressure gradients. In reality, such unstable
profiles would likely flatten toward profiles that are MHD-stable.
It should be noted that even if linear ideal-MHD stability is vi-
olated for some regimes, the plasma can still be non-linearly MHD
stable [116,117]. Modeling tools to test non-linear MHD stability are
under development [118].
The resiliency of the equilibrium properties with respect to finite-
beta effects have been optimized only indirectly via the QI optimiza-
tion. Future optimized configurations could benefit from including
additional metrics directly targeting the resiliency of MHD stability.
Flux surface quality. A set of nested surfaces is crucial for plasma con-
finement. In a stellarator field, nested flux surfaces are not guaranteed
to exist. The electromagnetic coils need to be carefully optimized so
that islands and stochastic regions are minimized within the confined
volume. At the same time, reliable island divertor operation across dif-
ferent plasma 𝛽values requires maintaining both stable island location
and size.
As plasma pressure increases, pressure-driven currents arise. These
currents can significantly alter the vacuum field and ‘break’ flux sur-
faces. In most previously proposed stellarator configurations, pressure-
driven currents caused significant stochasticity of flux surfaces in a
substantial portion of the plasma volume [117,119–124]. This phe-
nomenon has been observed both in simulation and in experimentation.
It is therefore critical to assess whether a set of nested flux surfaces
is preserved as the plasma 𝛽increases. The (indirect) minimization
of the Shafranov shift should also lead to good flux surface quality
at finite 𝛽. To assess the flux surface quality at finite 𝛽, the HINT-
3D equilibrium code [125,126] has been employed. This code does
not rely on the assumption of the existence of a nested set of flux
surfaces, unlike VMEC, making it suitable to analyze configurations with
potential pressure-driven modifications.
Fig. 13 shows that no signs of loss of confined plasma volume are
visible as the plasma 𝛽increases. At 𝛽axis = 8.0% (which corresponds
to ⟨𝛽⟩𝑉∼ 3.0%), HINT-3D calculates a Shafranov shift of ∼8.0%, which
translates to a radial magnetic axis displacement of ≃0.1 m. Moreover,
the 4∕4-island chain is well-preserved, while the resonant islands them-
selves are moving slightly. The precise location and orientation of the
resonant islands will need to be controlled with an array of correction
coils, which are not further specified in this paper.
Ambipolar radial electric field. Stellaris utilizes tungsten coatings as the
primary material for both the first wall and the divertor. Experiments
with tungsten divertors have shown that tungsten atoms can be sput-
tered and potentially accumulate in the core of the plasma [127]. This
accumulation can lead to a radiative collapse, causing operations to
halt.
A negative radial electric field (i.e., an electric field pointing radially
inwards) is known to be a significant factor in driving heavy impurities
toward the core [128,129]. Conversely, a positive radial electric field
can act to ‘flush out’ these heavy impurities.
Recent efforts have focused on developing methods to optimize
stellarator configurations to achieve a positive electric field within the
plasma core under reactor-relevant conditions (i.e., 𝑇𝑒≃𝑇𝑖) [71,108,
130]. The proposed configuration has been optimized similarly to the
configurations presented in [71]. Therefore, it is expected to support a
positive radial electric field in reactor-relevant conditions as well.
The 1-D NTSS [111] code has been used to compute the radial elec-
tric field profile from the ambipolarity condition. The mono-energetic
neoclassical transport coefficients for the necessary particle fluxes are
calculated using the SFINCS code [107]. Details of the simulation
Fig. 13. Poincaré plots of the cross-section at 𝜑= 𝜋
4 at 2% (black) and 8% (red) peak
𝛽values, corresponding to 1% and 4% volume averaged beta respectively. 𝑅is the
cylindrical major radius (which is 0 in the center of the device) and 𝑍is the Cartesian
coordinate. The cross section is mirror symmetric at the 𝑍= 0 plane. The analysis
reveals preservation of good, nested flux surfaces as plasma 𝛽increases. The 4∕4 island
chain remains intact across all relevant 𝛽values. The equilibrium magnetic field was
calculated using the HINT-3D equilibrium code [125,126].
set-up can be found in [108].
The proposed configuration has the potential to support a positive
radial electric field, as shown in Fig. 14. However, calculations based
on the target design point and plasma profiles outlined in Section 2.3
predict a negative electric field. By adjusting the operational point
toward a higher electron temperature (𝑇𝑒,0
= 19.8 k eV) and lower
ion density (𝑛𝑖,0
= 1.7 ⋅1020m−3), the configuration can achieve a
positive radial electric field. This operational regime aligns with the 0-D
analysis, but it comes at the expense of reduced fusion power output
(𝑃fusion = 860 MW).
While electron-root plasmas for reactor conditions are compelling
to address impurity transport challenges, the radial location of the root
transition is important: if it takes place at mid-radius, as in the case
of Fig. 14 (orange line), it could potentially lead to an ‘annulus’ of
impurity density accumulation at the region of the root transition, and
therefore potentially to a radiative collapse of the plasma. Secondly, at
the location of the root transition the radial electric field vanishes—in
a stellarator, this is expected to lead to maximal neoclassical transport.
Consequently, kinetic profiles might flatten at these locations. How-
ever, this may not be a significant drawback if the root transition were
located near the plasma edge, where turbulence shearing effects may
enable advanced confinement regimes. Future research will explore this
possibility in more detail.
2.3. Physics performance
To determine possible operational temperatures and densities, we
chose an integrated treatment of the power balance to assess the
required auxiliary power and the fusion gain. This method is sometimes
referred to as a ‘0.5D’ treatment, as we calculate with an a priori
assumed profile shape, but enforce the power balance by equating the
integrated loss power with the integrated heating power, rather than
solving a set of transport equations. In this paper, we will equivalently
use the term ‘0D’ for this method, for simplicity. High-fidelity profile
predictions are still the subject of active research [132–134], and only
preliminary calculations are available for the Stellaris design.
To obtain key parameters for the design point, we choose a simple
parametrization of the ion density and electron temperature profiles:
𝑇𝑒= 𝑇𝑒,0
(1 −𝜌2)𝛼𝑇,
(2)
𝑛𝑖= 𝑛𝑖,0
(1 −𝜌2)𝛼𝑛,
(3)
Fusion Engineering and Design xxx (xxxx) xxx 
8 
