J. Lion et al.
its ability to simulate bidirectional heat transport, allowing heat to
travel both forward and backward along the magnetic field line at
any point. In contrast, DFLT lacks this capability, which can result
in underestimations of heat loads in magnetically shaded regions, as
demonstrated in [228].
Compared to higher fidelity models, such as the EMC3-EIRENE
code [229], EMC3-Lite does not solve the Braginskii-like fluid equa-
tions for the edge plasma or include a kinetic neutral model. EMC3-
EIRENE has shown both qualitative and quantitative agreement with
experimental data from W7-X [230,231]. Although currently not ideal
for automated PFC design due to its computational cost and complexity,
and therefore not utilized in this study, EMC3-EIRENE would be
highly suitable for high fidelity modeling of devices like Stellaris, and
can be harnessed to better characterize detachment under reactor con-
ditions, further advancing the divertor concept. Despite its simplified
approach, the EMC3-Lite model is expected to sufficiently cover the
physics relevant to the distribution of non-radiated heat exhaust over
the target plates [217,228]
An important factor in calculating the heat loads on divertor plates
is understanding the extent of edge radiation and the degree of de-
tachment within the scrape-off layer (SOL). In this analysis, we assume
that the reactor operates under conditions of strong edge radiation and
nearly complete detachment, ensuring most of the heat flux is radiated
away in the last layers of the confined plasma and within the SOL itself.
Achieving stable detachment is critical, as it protects the divertor
target plates from excessive heat loads. To facilitate this, an active con-
trol system, likely involving a noble gas puff system, will be required.
Stable detachment and control mechanisms in island divertors have
already been demonstrated in the W7-X stellarator [42,232], as well as
radiative edge cooling techniques [233,234]. Both of these mechanisms
are expected to undergo further scientific investigation in W7-X.
For this analysis, we assume that 90% of the net heating power in
the plasma core is radiated before reaching the divertor region. This
means that, for a total of 500 MW of heating power, the divertor must
be capable of handling 50 MW. To accurately estimate the heat loads
on divertor plates, two additional hyperparameters are critical: (1) the
ratio of parallel to perpendicular transport, which depends on temper-
ature and density, and (2) the perpendicular diffusion coefficient 𝜒⟂,
representing turbulent cross-field transport. There remains considerable
uncertainty in estimating appropriate values of these parameters. For
the purpose of analyzing peak heat loads, we consider a lower bound of
𝑇LCFS = 100 eV with 𝜒⟂= 3 m2 s−1 and an upper bound of 𝑇LCFS = 200 eV
with 𝜒⟂= 1 m2 s−1, where temperature values at the Last Closed Flux
Surface (LCFS) are taken as proxies to estimate the ratio of parallel to
perpendicular transport. Obtaining more accurate estimates for these
quantities should be a focus of future studies. The density was set to
𝑛LCFS = 1019 m−3. Under these assumptions, our simulations indicate
that the divertor plates in Fig. 23 capture 97% of the non-radiated
heat for the lower parallel/perpendicular transport parameters (𝑇LCFS =
100 eV and 𝜒⟂= 3 m2 s−1) and 99% for the higher transport parameters
(𝑇LCFS = 200 eV and 𝜒⟂= 1 m2 s−1). The corresponding peak heat
loads are simulated at 5 MW m−2 and 9.5 MW m−2, respectively. In the
scenario with higher perpendicular transport, the divertor wetted area
is broader, and therefore heat loads on the targets are lower, but more
of the heat is also reaching the first wall. The simulated heat fluxes for
the main target elements under the most pessimistic assumptions are
illustrated in Fig. 25. These values remain below 10 MW m−2, which is
a commonly applied threshold for steady-state heat fluxes in divertor
designs [235]. This strike-line width is simulated to about 200 mm.
It is crucial to emphasize that the obtained values strongly hinge
on the assumed radiated power fraction, underscoring the importance
of robust detachment control in the divertor region, and potentially
additional edge radiation control using deliberate impurity seeding.
Complexity of the design and simulations increases when considering
transient heat flux limits. Such situations could arise during the start-up
phase of Stellaris, before full detachment is achieved, or in operational
Fig. 25. Simulated heat load patterns on the proposed divertor targets in the 45◦plane,
using the code EMC3-Lite, for 𝑇LCFS = 200 eV and 𝜒⟂= 1 m2 s−1. The width of the
strike line is approximately 200 mm.
scenarios where detachment control is momentarily lost due to a failure
mode. For instance, it has been reported that in W7-X the divertor
plates experience significant heat loads during the initial seconds of a
discharge, before detachment is established and the heat loads on the
target plates effectively drop to zero [236]. As with the incorporation of
additional functional requirements into the divertor design, evaluating
transient heat loads is beyond the scope of this study and should be
addressed in the future.
In conclusion, this analysis serves as an initial step toward the
development of a reactor-relevant island divertor concept for Stellaris.
While this study primarily focused on the thermal management aspect
of the divertor, the optimization of PFC arrangements to fulfill all
exhaust requirements is an ongoing effort within the fusion community.
We note that it is crucial to transfer the insights and lessons learned
from the W7-X divertor to a new, fully integrated, reactor-relevant
divertor design. Such a dedicated effort will be instrumental in bridging
the gap between experimental findings and power plant applications.
2.7. First wall
In the previous section, we considered the importance of strong edge
radiation to distribute a significant portion of the heat load across the
first wall before charged particle heat fluxes reach the target divertor
plates. The adopted operational scenario anticipates that approximately
90% of the heat flux is radiated in the outer layers of the plasma and
the SOL. In this section, we examine wall cooling capabilities. We adopt
a more conservative approach, assuming that 100% of the heating
power is radiated through core and edge radiation. This assumption
is specifically geared toward estimating the maximum heat load on
the first wall, which is critical for understanding peak temperature
conditions.
Our focus here is on a three-dimensional Finite Element thermal
analysis. We do not delve into the subject of erosion by neutral parti-
cles, which tends to be less significant in stellarators than in tokamaks,
provided that the SOL thickness is adequately large [237]. In the
Stellaris design, we ensure that the first wall is positioned at a mini-
mum distance of 100 mm from the plasma. This spacing is expected to
mitigate erosion rates, allowing us to limit the present investigation to
thermal effects.
For broader context, the most comprehensive overview of the first
wall challenges in DEMO can be found in [238], though a comparable
in-depth study for stellarators is yet to be published. This gap in the
literature underscores the need for dedicated research into the unique
first wall challenges posed by stellarator designs like Stellaris. In order
to estimate the peak temperatures, we employ the same first wall geom-
etry used in other sections of this paper, i.e., for divertor (Section 2.6)
and neutronics (Section 2.8) simulations. The wall encloses the edge
Fusion Engineering and Design xxx (xxxx) xxx 
15 
