J. Lion et al.
Fig. 26. Visualization of the chosen first wall geometry, which leaves sufficient space
for the divertor target plates crossing the magnetic islands, shown here in different
colors for qualitative distinction. The chosen first wall geometry is the same across all
analyses in this paper.
magnetic islands that are used for the island divertor solution, and is
shaped to maximize the breeder volume outside of it (see Fig. 26 for a
visualization of the geometry).
While multiple first wall concepts for stellarators are currently being
explored, we select a straightforward approach for this analysis: a solid
EUROFER97 wall with a 2 mm-thick tungsten armor serving as the
plasma-facing surface. This choice is justified by the low loss of fast
particles, as demonstrated in Fig. 6, which permits the use of a solid
wall rather than more complex designs—such as those requiring liquid
walls to handle highly localized heat loads due to significant losses of
fusion-born 𝛼particles.
The first wall in this design incorporates several rectangular cooling
channels running in the toroidal direction, utilizing pressurized helium
gas as the primary coolant. We simulate helium at 8 MPa with an inlet
temperature of 350 ◦C; the helium’s outlet temperature is computed
dynamically and is below 370 ◦C. Here inlet temperature refers to the
temperature at the front of the first wall; similarly, the outlet temperature
is the temperature of the helium after flowing along the plasma-facing
side. Our study does not take into account the other two sides of
the first wall module. The conceptual dimensions of this first wall
design are illustrated in Fig. 27. Although an interlayer between the
EUROFER97 and tungsten layers will be included in the actual design,
it is omitted from our model due to its negligible impact on the overall
temperature distribution.
It is important to note that the feasibility of this manufacturing
process will be the focus of subsequent studies. However, we empha-
size that the helium-cooled lithium lead (HCLL) blanket design serves
as a precedent, indicating the potential practicality of our proposed
approach.
In estimating the first wall temperature, we begin by calculating the
heat loads consistent with the design point outlined in Section 2.3 and
100% radiation of the heating power. The radiation source is divided
into two parts: core radiation and edge radiation.
First, core radiation is computed using the ‘0.5D-profiles’ introduced
in Section 2.3, considering contributions from Bremsstrahlung, tung-
sten impurity radiation, and synchrotron radiation. For edge radiation,
we model a Gaussian profile centered around 𝜌= 1 (discarding any
emission at 𝜌 > 1) to represent line radiation from partially ionized
impurities, such as Argon or Krypton [239]. These impurities would
need to be injected into the plasma to enable significant radiation of the
core heating power, facilitating a radiating edge and achieving divertor
detachment. Fig. 28 illustrates the combined emission region in one
cross section of the plasma from both core and edge as assumed and
calculated for the first wall power estimates.
Fig. 27. Cross section at constant toroidal angle through the first wall design as used
for the FEM analysis in this section. Actual dimensions are 𝐻= 12 mm, 𝑊= 12 mm,
𝑤= 5 mm, 𝐿= 27 mm, 𝑑= 3 mm, ℎ= 5 mm. Channel cross sections are square in our
study for ease of modeling, but would be rounded in the actual wall. The wall section
in our model is a single strip wrapping around the poloidal direction, mainly due to
the fact that we have not fixed a tile design yet. This is not fully realistic, but it allows
us to perform a reliable analysis. The sector is defined by the toroidal angle and the
channels follow the parametrization of the surface, meaning they are not all the same
length, but they are all around one meter long.
Fig. 28. Cross section through the plasma illustrating emission from both the plasma
core (green color legend) and edge (red color legend).
The first wall is also subjected to a volumetric heat load due to
neutrons produced by fusion reactions in the plasma. We include this
aspect in our model and simulations by incorporating the power density
data presented in the later Section 2.8, visually represented in Fig. 37.
We determine the peak temperatures in the first wall using a two-
step process. First, to calculate the heat load on the first wall, we follow
the method suggested in [240], where the first wall power density, 𝑝𝑊,
is obtained by integrating over a source volume 𝑉:
𝑝𝑊= ∫𝑉
𝜙𝑠
4𝜋‖⃗𝑟𝑊−⃗𝑟𝑆‖2
(
⃗𝑛⋅
⃗𝑟𝑊−⃗𝑟𝑆
‖⃗𝑟𝑊−⃗𝑟𝑆‖
)
𝑑 𝑉 .
(7)
Here, 𝜙𝑠is the local emission; ⃗𝑟𝑆is the position vector of the source;
⃗𝑟𝑊is the position vector to the wall; and ⃗𝑛is the normal vector of the
wall.
To implement this method, a regularization is necessary. We choose
to set the heat flux from a volume element on a surface area to zero
if the distance exceeds a characteristic length for the machine; in this
case, 8 m, since for the chosen configuration, this is a clear upper bound
on the distance between two points that have a direct line of sight to
each other. When computing the integral in Eq. (7) numerically, we set
the integrand to zero for contributions that satisfy
(
⃗𝑛⋅
⃗𝑟𝑊−⃗𝑟𝑆
‖⃗𝑟𝑊−⃗𝑟𝑆‖
)
< 0.
We verified a posteriori that this algorithm works effectively, as the
total emitted power from the LCFS and the total absorbed power by
Fusion Engineering and Design xxx (xxxx) xxx 
16 
