ORIGINAL RESEARCH
On the Use of High Magnetic Field in Reactor Grade Tokamaks
Hartmut Zohm1
Published online: 9 August 2018
 The Author(s) 2018
Abstract
A 0-D model is developed to explore, from the physics point of view, the design options for future reactor grade tokamaks
at values of the conﬁning magnetic ﬁeld exceeding the present technology. It is found that steady state devices with
consistent exhaust parameters can indeed be designed at more compact geometry than presently envisaged, but the plasma
performance, in particular the stability, is still at the upper end of what has been achieved in present day experiments, i.e.
requires an ‘advanced tokamak’ approach.
Keywords Fusion power plant  Tokamak  Magnetic conﬁnement
Introduction
The performance of magnetically conﬁned fusion plasmas
usually increases with increasing magnetic ﬁeld B for given
size, expressed by the torus major radius R. Simple scalings
[1] show that the fusion power scales as B4R3, and the
power ampliﬁcation Q increases with 1/(B-3.7R-2.7-const)
so that conversely, the major radius R can be decreased if
B is increased according to these relations, keeping the
plasma performance constant. This has even been inter-
preted misleadingly as ‘fusion performance not depending
on size’ [2, 3]. Present designs for next step reactor grade
experimental devices differ strongly in their assumptions
about the technically achievable toroidal ﬁeld. Relying
either on ITER technology (Nb3Sn), the value of Bmax at
the inner leg of the TF conductor of the order of 12 T [4]),
or new High Tc (HTSC) superconductors of the REBCO
type that could allow up to 24 T at the inner leg [5],
although this value would, using present technology,
require exceedingly large support structure to withstand the
forces.
This contribution aims at analyzing the principal merits
of high ﬁeld tokamaks (where the term ‘high ﬁeld’ means a
ﬁeld above the ﬁeld possible using state-of the-art ITER
technology) and the new challenges arising, e.g. for
exhaust of power through a poloidal divertor which can be
more challenging in a compact device. We explicitly leave
out a discussion of the technological challenges on the
route to using HTSC in fusion, but remind the reader that
solving these issues will be a pre-requisite for using high
ﬁeld tokamaks as FPPs and remains a serious R&D task (at
present, there is no convincing demonstration of a HTSC
high ﬁeld solution on the scale needed for a reactor-grade
device).
In ‘‘The 0-D Model’’ section, we describe the 0-D model
used for the analysis, an extension of the model used in [6]
for application in a wider parameter range. In ‘‘Exploration
of High Field Solutions’’ section, we discuss suitable ﬁg-
ures of merit for quantifying the gain that high ﬁeld
operation may bring and analyze several routes to tokamak
FPPs for their prospects on the high ﬁeld path. In ‘‘Dis-
cussion and Conclusions’’ section, a concluding discussion
is given.
The 0-D Model
We use a 0-D model based on the equations presented in
[6], improved to explore a larger parameter space. This
required to update the calculation of the fusion power for
higher temperatures as well as a more detailed radiation
model,
including
separately Bremsstrahlung,
impurity
radiation and synchrotron radiation (which speciﬁcally
becomes important when exploring high ﬁeld solutions).
& Hartmut Zohm
zohm@ipp.mpg.de
1
Max-Planck-Institut fu¨r Plasmaphysik, 8748 Garching,
Germany
123
Journal of Fusion Energy (2019) 38:3–10
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10894-018-0177-y
(0123456789().,-volV)(0123456789().,-volV)
